The Lagos State government says it will  soon enact a Victims Right Law that will enable victims of crimes  receive urgent medical attention in the state. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), the
Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, revealed this on
Wednesday while given account of his stewardship to commemorate the
first anniversary of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. According to Onigbanjo, with the law
hospitals in Lagos will render immediate first aid to victims of trauma
such as accidents, stab wounds, gunshot injuries and other medical
emergencies. Onigbanjo said the Victims Right Law would form part of the proposed legislative reforms of the state government. “The Victims’ Rights Law is to address situations where victims of crime or emergencies are not given initial medical treatment. “This is highlighted in the case of late
Miss Moradeun Balogun, a 28-year-old lady, who was stabbed by armed
robbers in Gbagada area of Lagos and was denied emergency treatment in
the hospital. “Other proposed laws are the Domestic and
Sexual Violence law that will lead to the creation of an Agency;
Amendment to Cultism Law, Amendment to Administration of Criminal
Justice Law to address innovations and developments in Criminal Justice
System. “Others are the Administration of Civil
Justice Law to develop and articulate a Civil Justice System and Animal
Law to address the issue of domestication of wild animals in the state,”
Onigbanjo said. The commissioner said in the last 12 months, 2,249 offenders were sentenced to community service for various offences. He noted that the sentences were served at various public institutions, including hospitals, remand homes and markets. “The Community Service Unit participated
in a legal clinic to sensitise magistrates and community stakeholders on
non-custodial sentencing. “The unit also supervised the COVID-19
lockdown violators and offenders, including Nollywood celebrities,
sentenced to community service recently,” Onigbanjo said. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA