The Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Mr.  Tony Ojukwu on Wednesday called on  Governments at all level and  institutions engaged in the COVID-19 response to protect the rights of  children. Ojukwu made the call this in Abuja to mark the 2020 Day of the African Child celebrated every June 16. He said: ‘the unprecedented outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has
brought about restrictive measures by virtually every country in the
world. ”This has led to the closure of educational and recreational
facilities for children, with attendant consequences on human rights and
social development. ”Children should be the centre of the COVID-19 response “he said. Ojukwu stated that globally, “it is estimated that about 1.5 billion
children are currently out of school due to restrictions necessitated by
the COVID-19 pandemic. “In countries like Nigeria which already has a large population of
out-of-school children, this will mean additional lack of access to
education by those already in school. “The introduction of online learning has further widened the access gap between rich and poor children and families,” he stated. He said that in terms of the impact on the health sector,  the focus
on COVID-19 interventions has meant that other child survival and health
initiatives such as immunisation has suffered a great deal. Ojukwu then called on the federal and state governments to resume
life saving vaccination of children against the killer diseases. He drew attention to the theme of the 2020 commemoration of the Day
of the African Child – “realizing access to a child-friendly justice
system in Africa”. Ojukwu stated that “there has never been a time when child friendly justice systems should be set up like now. “The sharp rise in sexual violence and exploitation of children has
reached an epidemic peak in Nigeria and every executive, judicial and
legislative machinery should be deployed to stem this tide,” he said. Ojukwu on behalf of the Commission further called on the remaining
States that are yet to enact the Child Rights Law to do so as a matter
of urgency and in the interest of justice. He added that states that have enacted the Law should put in place mechanisms to implement and enforce it . He called for the establishment of family court and child rights
implementation committee, especially in the light of the rise in rape
cases and other violations of the rights of children. He said that the Commission has recently launched a national week of activism . ”This is to bring attention of policy makers on the growing incidence
of rape and other sexual and gender-based violence across Nigeria
calling for a declaration of state of Emergency on Rape and Sexual and Gender-based Violence (SGBV). “The Commission is mobilising national actions across executive,
legislative and judicial authorities as well as non-state actors to
coalesce efforts to address this cankerworm. ” It will also be recalled that on the 27th of May 2020, in line with
its mandate, the Commission issued an Advisory Opinion on the
“Protection of the Rights and Dignity of Almajiri Children in COVID-19
Response. “It declared Almajiri system a violation of multiple human rights of
children and called on State Governments to ‘put in place financial,
institutional and programmatic frameworks to urgently address the needs
of the Almajiri children’. “The Commission advised further for adequate protection programs,
basic support services and empowerment programs to address poverty and
other socio-economic vulnerabilities that made the parents to send out
the children in the first place,” he said  (NAN ) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA