London Mayor Sadiq Khan has  ordered a review of the capital’s statues and street names after the  toppling of the statue of an English slave trader by anti-racism  protesters triggered a debate about the demons of Britain’s imperial  past. A statue of Edward Colston, who made a fortune in the 17th century
from trading West African slaves, was torn down and thrown into Bristol
harbour on Sunday by a group of demonstrators taking part in a wave of
protests following the death of George Floyd in the United States. Khan said a commission would review statues, plaques and street
names, which largely reflect the rapid expansion of London’s wealth and
power at the height of Britain’s empire in the reign of Queen Victoria. “Our capital’s diversity is our greatest strength, yet our statues,
road names and public spaces reflect a bygone era,’’ Khan said. He said some statues would be removed. “It is an uncomfortable truth that our nation and city owes a large
part of its wealth to its role in the slave trade and while this is
reflected in our public realm, the contribution of many of our
communities to life in our capital has been wilfully ignored.’’ In the biggest deportation in known history, weapons and gunpowder
from Europe were swapped for millions of African slaves who were then
shipped across the Atlantic to the Americas. Ships returned to Europe with sugar, cotton and tobacco. As many as 17 million African men, women and children were torn from
their homes and shackled into one of the world’s most brutal globalised
trades between the 15th and 19th centuries. Many died in merciless conditions. Those who survived endured a life of subjugation on sugar, tobacco and cotton plantations. Britain abolished the trans-Atlantic slave trade in 1807 although the  full abolition of slavery did not follow for another generation. (Reuters/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.