The Governing Council of the Standards Organisation of  Nigeria (SON) has approved 168 new Standards for publication and  dissemination to various sectors of the nation’s economy. This, it said, was in furtherance to the economic diversification policy of the Federal Government. In a virtual meeting headed by the Permanent Secretary,  Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI) Dr Nasir  Sani-Gwarzo, the council also put its seal on the first ever Nigerian  National Standardisation Strategy (NNSS) 2020 – 2022. The NNSS was developed by SON to identify priority areas to focus on, based on national needs assessment. Sani-Gwarzo said that the document was accompanied by a  National Implementation Plan that gave  orientation to the national  standardisation work within a three year duration. The NNSS, according to him, had identified a total of  658 standardisation projects in key priority areas classified by  economic sectors as highlighted in federal government’s Economic  Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP) the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan  (NIRP) and other related national strategic plans. Sani-Gwarzo described the establishment of the NNSS as  outstanding and an epoch- making achievement,  and commended  the  administration of the Director General of SON, Mr Osita Aboloma. He also commended the SON management for resolving all  promotion arrears and conducting staff promotion exercises as and when  due. The permanent secretary lauded the management for its  resolve to go ahead with the 2020 promotion exercise in spite of the  challenges of the Coronavirus pandemic. In his welcome address, Aboloma enumerated the  organisation’s roles and support in the federal government’s response to  the COVID-19 pandemic. He said they include leveraging its international  collaboration to make necessary and relevant international standards  available to local manufacturers at no cost. “The organisation also waived charges relating to  importation of essential materials while also fast tracking the  process,” he said. Aboloma said that SON had also been providing necessary  technical quality assurance support to local manufacturers involved in  the manufacture of Personal Protective Equipment  (PPE) required for the  prevention and control of COVID-19 nationwide, through its state  offices. Commenting on the approval of 168 Nigerian Industrial  Standards by the Council after the meeting, the SON Chief Executive said  they include 64 for Electrical/Electronic products and 53 for Chemical  Technology. Others are, 47 for Food and Agricultural products;  three for Civil/Building Technology products as well as the reviewed  standard for Hotel and Serviced Accommodation Management System and  Rating – Requirements and Guidance for Use. He also highlighted some of the standards to include  review of standards for fertilisers, review of existing and development  of new standards for the Tomato and Cassava Value Chains. “We also have the review on the adoption of  international standards on environmental testing, adoption of  international recommendations for renewable energy and hybrid systems  for rural electrification among many others,” he said. The director general assured that the approved standards  would be published promptly while awareness programmes would be carried  out with relevant sectoral stakeholders This, he said, was to encourage voluntary uptake of the standards across industries. He reiterated that the newly approved 168 Nigerian  industrial standards cut across various products and services and were  of great economic, regulatory and industrial importance for Nigeria. On the importance of the NNSS, he stated that it would  enable the nation develop standards in a most effective way, using  available resources in the most efficient manner. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA