The Senate on Thursday, via its Committee on Aviation, said  re-opening of nation’s airports for operation on June 21 was  unrealistic, following concerns raised by workers in the aviation  industry. Chairman of the Committee, Sen. Smart Adeyemi (APC Kogi), gave the
position when the committee met with officials of Senior Staff
Association of Nigeria Air Transport Services. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that the union officials had
raised concerns experienced by the workers from their various employers. They told the committee, in their separate presentations, that
workers had not been paid salaries for some months, while some were paid
half or received quarter salary by their various employers since the  COVID-19 lockdown began in March. The representatives of the aviation workers also noted that there was
need for a special financial intervention and provision of necessary
protocols, protective systems in view of the COVID-19 pandemic before
reopening the airports for operations. Adeyemi said the senate was concerned about the issues raised by the
aviation workers on their challenges, given that aviation sector was key
to the social economic development of any country. He said though it had been said that the airports would be unlocked
on June 21, it might be difficult to allow the airports to open because
of the concerns raised by the workers. “Though you emphasised the need to unlock the airport, but the fact
remains that there are quite a number of issues that are begging for
answers. “I do not see how we will allow the airports to be unlocked when you
are telling us that some of your colleagues have not been paid for
months or that they were paid half salary. “It will be suicidal to allow you guys to man the facilities, if you
are saying that you have not been paid, so we must see how we can
address this issue. “I personally nurse the fear that it will be practically impossible
for us to unlock the airports and aviation industry on June 21, given
the issues raised,” he said. He said the senate would write the executive on the issues raised by
the workers on the best option for the general interest of the nation,
noting that the aviation sector could not be compromised for any reason,
given its importance to economic development. He said there must be mechanisms put in place to ensure safety and
confront the challenges facing the sector before unlocking the airports. Earlier,the National President of the union, Mr Llitrus Ahmadu, also
called for special intervention for the sector operators, given the huge
capital required to operate in the sector. He also said there was need to ensure proper provision of protective
equipment and other protocols like re-certification of pilots,
airworthiness of  of the aircraft, payment of workers’ salary, among
other requests before reopening the airports. He also called on the senate to prevail on the Labour Ministry to
wade into the grievances of workers, especially the prevention of some
aviation workers from participating in union activities. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA