The House of Representatives has called
for a review of Nigeria’s foreign policy with a view to liberate the
black man from racial of oppression  and discrimination across the
world. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports
that the call was sequel to a unanimous motion adopted on Matters of
Urgent Public Importance moved by Rep. Garba  Muhammad (APC-Kaduna) at
plenary on Wednesday. Muhammad recalled that Nigeria attained
independence in October 1960 after British colonial rule that spanned
over a century after a bitter struggle lasting decades. He said that the feat was made possible
by the contributions of nationalists and founding fathers of our nation
such like Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sir Ahmadu Bello and Chief Obafemi Awolowo
and other frontrunners and unsung heroes like the “Aba Women Warriors.” The lawmaker said that the dehumanisation
to which the Nigerian people were subjected to had  left an indelible
yearning to confront denial, discrimination and oppression of any form
particularly on account of skin colour. He highlighted the role of Nigeria and her leaders in the expulsion of the apartheid policy in South Africa. “Aware that for the aforementioned
reasons, on attainment of independence, Africa became the centerpiece of
Nigeria’s foreign policy. “The time has come to put an end to the
culture of discrimination, annihilation, genocide and racial cleansing
being perpetrated against Nigerians, Africans and black people all over
the world. “The black race must secure the same
level of protection of which the Jewish precedent is an example; and
that Nigeria must once again take the lead toward this objective if
eternal shame is to be avoided,” he said. Muhammad said that if the discrimination
was allowed to continue, there would cease to be a black population on
earth in due course of time. He said that the foreign policy was
dynamic and that the time had come to focus Nigeria’s foreign policy
toward its original goals of Afro centrism as well as justice for all
people particularly all black people. In his ruling, the  Speaker
of the house, mandated the Committees on ‘Foreign Affairs and Diaspora
to collaborate to organise a conference of local and international
stakeholders. He mandated them to work towards  fashioning out  comprehensive approaches to the festering challenge of  discrimination against Nigerians, Africans and black people all over the  world. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.