The Federal  Government says it cannot continue to subsidise television forever but  will work with relevant stakeholders to design right policy framework and create sustainable ecosystem for the industry. The  Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, stated this  on Tuesday in Abuja at the virtual inauguration of the Task Team on  Audience Measurement. “Currently,  government is subsidising the signal distribution because the channels  cannot pay for the carriage of their stations by the licensed Signal  Distributors, who have invested in equipment and transmission. “Things cannot  continue like this. Government cannot continue to subsidise television  forever, hence we must create a sustainable ecosystem,” he said. The minister noted that Audience Measurement is the missing link in the entire broadcasting ecosystem. Audience  measurement, according to Wikipedia, “measures how many people are in  an audience, usually in relation to radio listenership and television  viewership…” He said the broadcast  industry needs an Audience Measurement system that will encourage  investment, mainly through increased advertising spend driven by  confidence in the Audience Ratings data. He said  increase in advertising revenue will in turn encourage current and  prospective channel owners to create additional television channels  necessary for the success of Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT). “We need  an objective and scientific Audience Measurement System that  articulates the value of the content to consumers, as well as the value  of the audience to advertisers, particularly in the television sector. “The absence of a  world class measurement regime has resulted in under-investment in the  sector, which is necessary to foster the growth of the industry. “This is because the  advertising community continues to rely on subjective factors when  making decisions on the content they want, as opposed to how many viewers the content truly attracts,” he said. The  minister said the consequence of  lack of scientific audience  measurement system is that television platforms are subjected to renting  out space on their channels to sustain their businesses. He added that content  producers are also at the mercy of sponsors which, unfortunately, skews  the authenticity of their creative output in favour of a few decision  makers, instead of the millions of TV viewers. He stressed that the existing model will never enable Nigeria’s creative industry to reach its full potential. The minister said the value of Nigeria’s Broadcast Advertising Market is not proportional to the country’s population, when compared to the Top 3 Markets in the Sub-Saharan Africa. “Despite having a  population more than three times that of South Africa, Nigeria’s  Television Advertising Revenue in 2016 was 309 million Dollars compared  to that of South Africa, which was 1.301 billion Dollars. “It is imperative  that we urgently put in place an Industry Framework that will ensure  that content producers receive their just due for the value of the  content they create. “We must also provide objective guarantees to the Advertising community on their Return-On-Investment on media placements. “This will then have  the overall effect of guaranteeing greater spend by the Advertisers, who  are all seeking to grow their market share,” he said. The  minister said with the right policy framework, the Nigerian TV  advertisement market will grow two to three times its current size and  generate additional 200 million dollars to 400 million dollars revenue  to the industry. He therefore charged  the committee of industry experts to help solve the Audience Measurement  issue in the country once and for all. He said the Terms of  Reference of the committee included to identify best practice Audience  Measurement System that will support the sustainable growth of the  Nigeria Creative Industry. The committee is to  recommend a Framework for supporting the sustainability of the Audience  Measurement System, independent of the federal government; The committee is also to recommend a Payment and Disbursement Framework among the key stakeholders in the industry. The members of the Task Team, which has six weeks to submit its report, are Alhaji Garba Kankarofi as Chairman and Mr Joe Mutah as Secretary. Other members are Mr Obi Asika, Hajiya Sa’aa Ibrahim, Mr Mahmoud Ali Balogun, Mrs Pauline Ehusani and Mr Tolu Ogunkoya. Responding  on behalf of other members, Kankarofi thanked the minister for their  appointments and assured that they would engage every sector of the  industry to come up with good report. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA