The Senate on Thursday  said it might be compelled  to issue a
warrant for arrests on  heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies
(MDAs), which failed to appear before it. The heads of the MDAs were to appear before the senate to defend
queries against them in the  2015 Audit report of the Office of Auditor
General of the Federation (OAGF). Sen. Matthew Urhoghide (PDP-Edo), Chairman, Senate Committee on
Public Accounts, made the disclosure, when the committee met to hear
defence of the MDAs on the queries. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) however, reports that non of the
agencies expected to defend the audit report queries raised against them
appeared before the committee, in spite of receiving notices from the
committee to appear. Urhoghide, however, said the MDAs must appear before it, to answer
queries raised in the audited reports by the office of auditor-general. “Warrant of arrest is the exclusive preserve of the senate, because it is prescribed in our constitution. “If you check section 89 of the constitution, very clear in the last
resort, says that you must force  anybody to come and give account of
any expenditure, or where it suspects that there is any infraction or
corruption that have been elecited. “I want to say that we are going to do just that. I have said it,
once we invite you here, you do not come, we give you the first warning 
and if you do  not come, we issue a warrant of arrest. “Government is a continuum, so they have to come and give account,” he said. Urhoghide said the MDAs were invited to answer queries raised on
public finance spending in the 2015 audited reports of the OAGF. He said the report raised some queries on the spending activities of the MDAs, hence their invitation. He said many of the agencies had yet to respond to the letter inviting them to respond to the queries. He said some ministers of some heads of agencies were not ready to be
accountable for their spendings on public fund, noting that the 9th
Senate would not tolerate the act of not appearing to defend their
expenditure. Urhoghide listed agencies that did not appear to defend the queries
against them on public spending to include Ministry of Information and
Culture and Ministry of Petroleum Resources. Others were Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development,  Ministry of Power, Ministry of Solid Minerals Development and National  Population Commission. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.