A male COVID-19 patient has absconded from a Plateau isolation
centre, the Coordinator, World Health Organisation (WHO), Mr Williams
Bassi, has said. Bassi made the disclosure during a courtesy visit to the palace of the Gbong Gwom Jos, Jacob Buba, on Thursday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the officials of the
National Orientation Agency (NOA), WHO and the state Ministry of
Information, had paid a courtesy visit to the royal father to begin the
campaign on COVID-19 in Jos North. The WHO coordinator, however, stated that efforts were on to trace
the fleeing patient and return him to the centre to complete his
treatment. He said that the challenge being experienced in the state was that
people who had tested positive refused to leave their homes to receive
treatment at the isolation centres. “We have one COVID-19 patient that has absconded from the centre, but
I assure you we are on his trail and we will trace him and bring him
back to continue with treatment. “The major problem we have is that so many people have tested
positive but have refused to go to the isolation centre, an example is
the Duala Area in Jos North. “They keep refusing to go to the isolation centres until some demands are met, and this is not good for us all. Bassi noted that early identification, isolation and treatment were the best way to stop the spread of the disease. Earlier, the Director, NOA, Mr Bulus Dabit, said that Jos North was
the epicentre of the disease in Plateau state accounting for 76 out of
109 positive cases in the state as of June 3. Dabit said the high number could be because most people in the
community did not believe that COVID-19 was real, hence, the non
compliance to social distancing and observance of personal hygiene. He said the high number of cases in the area was what prompted the
motorised campaign to educate the people on the dreaded disease. The director appealed to the traditional ruler to use his position to
impress the message of social/physical distancing, personal hygiene and
other safety measures on his subjects as non compliance was higher in
rural communities. The Gbong Gwom Jos stated that he was working with government and
relevant agencies to spread awareness of the disease to local
communities. He advised the public to always eat foods that could build immunity
as having a strong immune system was one of the ways to beat the
disease. Buba stated that it was a good sign that the virus could be defeated
in the state as the number of discharged cases exceeded the number of
active cases. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA