The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) says it has begun  harmonising the production of ventilators developed across the country  to conform with the international standards toward containing COVID-19  pandemic. Its Director-General, Osita Aboloma, made this known in a statement
on Wednesday in Lagos, following the unveiling of locally manufactured
ventilators produced by Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro in Ogun. Aboloma was represented by SON Coordinator, Ogun Office 1, Mr Jerome Umoru, at the unveiling. The SON director-general urged various inventors to ensure compliance
with ISO 5080601/2/12/3020 and Medical Electrical Equipment part 11 for
clinical care. According to him, adherence to the standard will ensure ease during
the process of conformity assessment and product certification. He added that the certification of locally produced ventilators, air
purifiers and hand sanitiser machines would put the nation in its pride
of place globally. “We are partnering with the institute in ensuring that various
machines produced in the country meet the required standards so as not
to end up in the shelves,” Aboloma said. He said the standards body of the unification was also aimed at
saving the nation’s foreign exchange spent on importation of ventilators
to fights against COVID-19. Aboloma advised private sector investment in such innovations to
enable inventors to go through the next stages of clinical trials and
obtain the Nigerian Industrial Standard (NIS) mark. He reiterated SON’s support toward sustaining local production of
essential materials to fight the COVID-19 pandemic through quality
assurance. “In our efforts to address the ongoing pandemic, we have diligently
assigned officers to inspect the ventilators and alcohol-based hand
sanitisers under production. “We have one common standard for each product. We want to ensure that
what we are producing meets the standard and once it does, we will
certify it. “We will also continue to monitor activities so that they do not rest on their oars in producing quality goods. “I have presented a copy of the Standard to the Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, and it is the ‘golden rule,” he said. Aboloma promised that the moment the institute was able to meet the
basic parameter on requirements, certification of the innovations would
be fast tracked. “SON is ready to partner with all technical institutions, especially
those involved in the production of life saving equipment and materials
at this time. “This is so that their products will meet minimum requirements of the
relevant Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS), and undergo certification
under the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) scheme,”
he said. The SON director-general revealed that in no distant time, consumers
would be empowered through product authentication scheme to determine
the quality and conformance of products at the point of purchase. He said that those without necessary certifications would be rejected. Responding, the Rector, Olusegun Aluko, said that possible
partnership with private sector could help boost the production of
ventilators against the high cost of importation. Aluko explained that the institution had also designed a disinfectant
cubicle (just like the security screening cubicles at points of entry
in banks). He said this would disinfect anyone passing through it within a space of 20 seconds. Aluko said that the invention was critical at a time when the government was planning to open up the economy. He further showcased a handling room disinfecting machine produced by the institute. The rector said it could conveniently be used to disinfect classrooms, offices, and banking halls. He solicited for more government supports on the innovations to fight COVID-19 as well as boost the investors’ confidence. “We also invented a multiple outlet of handwashing and sanitising machine. “This will be useful in supermarkets, schools and other public places that accommodate crowds. “We want patronage from different sectors to deploy the machines to the wellness of Nigerians,” the rector added. Aluko noted that the materials for manufacturing the ventilators were sourced locally. He said it would support the noble innovation and make it more
accessible and cheaper compared to imported one’s which were scarce,
costly and took longer to deliver. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA