Abuja, June 19, 2020(NAN)Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says gender
based violence, rape and sexual assaults are blemishes on the collective
humanity and dignity of Nigerians as a people and a nation. Osinbajo expressed his displeasure on Friday in Abuja while
addressing a virtual meeting of the National Human Rights Commission
(NHRC), on the scourge of rape, sexual and gender based violence in
Nigeria Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, in a statement said the vice
president affirmed  that the fight against gender violence would be
driven down to the states though the National Economic Council (NEC). “I will continue to use the platform of the National Economic Council
to encourage states yet to domesticate the Violence Against Persons
Prohibition Act of 2015 and the Child’s Rights Act of 2003 to do so. “Gender based violence, rape and sexual assaults are blemishes on our collective humanity and dignity as a people and a nation. “We will work with all actors to detect and punish the perpetrators
of these sickening acts and work even harder to prevent their
occurrence.’’ Osinbajo commended NHRC for taking the lead on the important
conversations around rape and gender based violence in Nigeria, and for
organising a week long sensitisation and advocacy campaigns. He also lauded the Minister of Women Affairs, Paulen Talen, for her
historic presentation on the subject to the Federal Executive Council,
which led to the adoption of several important resolutions. The vice president  said that the National Agency for the Prohibition
of Trafficking in Persons, the International Community and several
civil society organisations had also been at the forefront of  finding
solutions to address the root causes of gender based violence. “While violence against women has always been a challenge in Nigeria,
the COVID 19 lockdown has occasioned a steep increase in sexual and
gender based violence across the country. “I am told that between March 23, 2020– May 29, the FCT Sexual and
Gender Based Violence Response Team received an overwhelming 105
incidents; an average of 13 incidents per week, up from the usual five
to six incidents per week, pre-COVID-19. “Also, a few days ago the Inspector General of Police disclosed that
the police had recorded about 717 rape incidents across the country
between January and May. “And that 799 suspects had so far been arrested, 631 cases
conclusively investigated and charged to court, while 52 cases are still
under investigation. “What these figures show is an escalation of an already disgraceful trend of violence against women and girls in the country.” He regretted the rapes and murders of Mrs Queen Igbinevbo, a pregnant
woman in her home in Edo on May 20, 2020, Vera Uwaila Omozuwa and a
22-year-old student of University of Benin on May 27, 2020. More so, that of Barakat Bello, an 18-year- old female student of
Federal College of Animal Health and Production, Ibadan on June 1, 2020;
among others, saying they should never have happened and must not be
allowed to continue. The vice president said that President Muhammadu Buhari and state
governors recently undertook to take drastic action against gender based
violence. “On June 11, state governors, under the auspices of the Nigeria
Governors Forum (NGF), agreed to declare a state of emergency on rape
and gender based violence against women and children, while renewing
their commitment to ensure that offenders face the full weight of the
law. “Similarly, the president, in his June 12 address to Nigerians,
reiterated government’s determination to fight gender based violence 
through the instrumentality of the law and awareness creation,’’ he
said. According to him, there is need to look beyond just legislation to
fix the problem, but rather, interrogate the dysfunctional cultures, the
systemic flaws in institutions and perverse social norms which enable
sexual and gender based violence. The Women Affairs Minister, the Executive Secretary of the NHRC, Tony
Ojukwu, representatives of the United Nations and civil society
organisations participated in the virtual meeting. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA