The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) says it will hold its 11th
teleconference on Wednesday to review the grievances of the Nigeria
Association of Resident Doctors (NARD). This was contained in a statement issued by the Head, Media and Public
Affairs of the forum, Mr Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, in Abuja on
Monday. Bello-Barkindo said the review had become necessary after brokering the
suspension of industrial action by NARD, in order to ensure that doctors
returned to work and provide services under a convivial working
atmosphere. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NARD had, on Sunday,
announced the suspension of its two weeks industrial action, after a
meeting initiated by the leadership of the NGF with the executives of
the association. Bello-Barkindo said that the meeting, expected to be joined by all the
36 governors at 2 pm., had other critical issues listed on its agenda. “According to the invitation issued by the Director-General of the
forum, Mr Asishana Okauru on Monday, several crucial national issues
will be addressed by the governors, prominent among which are health,
economy and infrastructure. “Also expected to feature at the NGF meeting is a presentation on the
update of the COVID-19 strategic plan by the Health Minister, Dr Osagie
Ohanire. “Another update on the NGF’s committee of governors mandated by the
forum to interface with the Presidential Task Force on the COVID-19
pandemic, headed by Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State, will also
be brought before the forum for review. “Recall that governors have been in the forefront of the struggle to get
Nigeria off the global polio map, which finally materialised a couple
of weeks ago. “The report will be placed before them at the meeting to accord them the
chance to adopt new strategies of maintaining the polio-free status of
the country,” he said. On the economy, Bello-Barkindo said that the governors would be looking
at the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) deductions and
refunds as well as the ongoing restructuring of state loans. He added that the governors would also deliberate on the hanging
infrastructure refunds to five states, namely Rivers, Bayelsa,
Cross-Rivers, Ondo and Osun. According to him, the National Economic Council (NEC) agenda will also
be brought for consideration, along with Gov. Nasiru el-Rufai’s
committee’s report to the NEC, which the governors will ratify before
its presentation before NEC. Bello-Barkindo said that the World Bank would also feature prominently
at the teleconference, as the States’ Financial Transparency,
Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) programme, would request the
consent of the governors to launch a new e-procurement initiative. According to him, the SFTAS is being driven by Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Yue Man Lee of the World Bank. He said that other briefs would revolve around the World Bank Cares
Initiative, while an update would be tabled around the request for
additional financing that states had been seeking from the bank. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.