The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted cloudy and thundery weather activities from Wednesday to Friday. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Tuesday in Abuja said there was
increased cloudiness and reduction in temperature currently being
observed over most parts of the country. According to it, cloudy skies with intervals of sunshine are
anticipated over the northern region with prospects of a late night
thunderstorm over Yobe environs in the morning of Wednesday. “ During the afternoon/evening period, thunderstorms are expected
over southern Borno, Adamawa, Taraba, Gombe, Bauchi and Kaduna. “Over the central parts of the country, cloudiness is to prevail with
possibilities of overnight thunderstorms over Makurdi and Lokoja during
the morning hours. “In the afternoon and evening period, a few thunderstorms are expected over Jos, Abuja, Lokoja, Nasarawa and Kwara, “it said. NiMet forecast western flank of southern cities to be cloudy in the
morning hours with chances of morning thunderstorms over parts of Ikom,
Obudu, Enugu, Owerri, Umuahia, Awka, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Uyo and
Eket. The agency envisaged better prospects of thunderstorms and rains over
the inland and coastal belt during the afternoon and evening period. “For Thursday, late night thunderstorm activities are expected to
affect most places in the north eastern region especially over Borno,
Yobe, Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Adamawa, Jalingo, Mambilla Plateau and
Kaduna. “The north western region cloudy skies with intervals of sunshine are anticipated during the morning hours. “Pockets of thunderstorms are envisaged over the northern region to
affect southern Maiduguri, Jigawa, Gombe, Bauchi, Gusau and Taraba
during the afternoon and evening hours, “ it said. According to NiMet, cloudy morning is anticipated over the central
cities with possibilities of late night thunderstorms to affect Jos,
Nasarawa, Kwara and Niger. The agency predicted a few thunderstorms over Abuja, Niger and Kwara later in the day. It further predicted southern part of the country to experience light
thunderstorms in the morning hours with widespread thunderstorms over
the entire southern region during the afternoon and evening. “For Friday, overnight thunderstorm activities are expected to affect
the north western flank, while cloudy morning is anticipated over the
north eastern flank of the country in the morning. “Later in the day, thunderstorms are anticipated over most places in the northern region. “The central region should be predominately cloudy with possibilities
of overnight thunderstorms over Niger and Kwara during the morning
hours. “ Later in the day, there are chances of widespread thunderstorms
over most parts of the central cities during the afternoon and evening
hours,“ it said. According to it, residents of the southern part of the country are likely to experience morning thunderstorms and rains. NiMet also envisages widespread thunderstorms and rain showers over
the entire inland and the coastal belt during the afternoon and evening
hours. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.