The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on  Thursday in Lagos said the agency’s floating dock would generate N1  billion monthly for the country. Its Director-General, Dr Bashir Jamoh, made this known while presenting his achievements in his first 100 days in office. According to him, the agency is also expecting huge influx of
employment opportunities from the utilisation of the floating dock. “Presently, the floating dock is at the Naval Dockyard and we are
making everything possible to get it to the Continental Shipyard, when
the Nigerian Ports Authority would have wound down its operation at the
yard. “Apart from the N1 billion naira monthly the floating dock will
generate, we are expecting up to 350 staff engagement and these are the
main workers. “We have five segments comprising cadets in electrical, mechanical and each segment will provide employment for 75 persons. “Additionally, the floating dock will be used for the sea time. For
those who have the expertise in electrical and mechanical; they will be
placed there to have their own time,” he said. Jamoh noted that the agency would be signing a Memoradum of
Understanding with all operators of oil and gas, to take their ship to
the floating dock and would also be engaging with managing partner, to
help manage the dock. He pointed out that as at now, they are filing with the
Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), to confirm and
approve the Public-Private Partnership arrangement they want to embark
upon. “This is something that is like a cash cow and we are looking forward to full operations soon,” Jamoh said. He noted that as regards piracy, the synergy they had with the
Nigerian Navy and the Nigeria Police Force had led to the arrest of 27
alleged criminals, who were now awaiting trial. Jamoh highlighted lack of coordination and interfacing as the biggest
challenge in maritime security, adding that the agency would be
harmonising its security platform with that of the NPA and the Navy, to
bridge this problem. He noted that a review of the Cabotage guidelines had been concluded
and would be endorsed for onward transmission to the Ministry of
Transportation, for onward transmission to the Presidency. “We are targeting that before October, there will be fast disbursement of the Cabotage Financing Fund,” he said. Jamoh said the agency had achieved 85 per cent in its Deep Blue
Project, saying that the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic had stalled
the deployment of the assets. “We now have two special mission vessels; 14 out of the 17
fast-intervention vessels have been received. Also, 14 out of the 17
special armoured vehicles have been received. “The C4i has been operational for over one and a half years and 24 hours in seven days. “Two special mission aircraft are being expected in August and three
special mission helicopters are being expected in January 2021,” he
said. Jamoh noted that as regards seafarers, the problem with the policy
governing it was that it had structural defects which would be
perfected, to avoid pitfalls and move forward. He pointed out that presently, those who had left the maritime academy with good grades were given automatic employment. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA