A  Federal High Court, Abuja, on Thursday, dismissed the applications filed  by the 32 deregistered political parties against the Independent  National Electoral Commission (INEC). Justice  Anwuli Chikere, in her judgment, held that the plaintiffs failed to  prove their case that the power of the electoral umpire to deregister  them could not be exercisable. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC had, on Feb. 6, deregistered 74 political parties, leaving 18 others. However,  in a motion on notice with suit number: FHC//ABJ/ CS/444/19 between  Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD) and 32 others Vs. Attorney General  of the Federation (AGF) and INEC (1st and 2nd respondents respectively)  the applicants approached the court for restraining order. Although  33 political parties filed the matter in court, two of the parties;  Labour Party (LP) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) were later  dropped from the suit because the parties were not deregistered by INEC. The 31  political parties, in the suit filed by their counsel, Kehinde Edun, on  Oct. 30, 2019 and served on INEC on Oct. 31, 2019, after getting the  hint about INEC’s plan to deregister them, had prayed the court for “an  order of interlocutory injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from  deregistering the plaintiffs, or any political party for that matter,  pending the determination of this suit. “And for such further order(s) as this Honourable Court may deem fit to make in the circumstances.” They  sought for the order on the grounds that “the plaintiffs as registered  political parties have been carrying out their constitutional/statutory  duties and functions without any funding from government. “The  plaintiffs have been canvassing for votes and nominating candidates for  elections into electoral constituencies in Nigeria.” NAN also  report that on June 3, the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) had prayed  the court to be joined in the suit, making the total number of the  deregistered parties to be 32. On its part, INEC,  through its lawyer, Alhassan Umar, SAN, argued that it exercised the  power in according with Section 225(a), (b) and (c) of the Nigerian  Constitution. It stated further  that the parties failed to meet the guidelines as stipulated by the  constitution as they had failed to win a seat in all the elections  conducted in the country whether presidential, governorship,  chairmanship or counsellorship poll. INEC averred that Section 225(a) clearly spelt out the grounds for deregistration of political parties in the country. Delivering the  judgment on Thursday, Justice Chikere said it was clear from paragraph  36 of the plaintiffs’ application that they have participated in various  elections in the country but could neither show any evidence of winning  an election nor attached certificates of returns from INEC to show the  seat they won. She said the plaintiffs failed to present sufficient material facts for the court to rule in their favour. “This court cannot  manufacture evidence to advance the course of the plaintiffs. The law is  that he who asserts must prove,” the judge held, quoting Section 131 of  the Evidence Act. According to the judge, Section 132 of the Evidence Act states that the burden is on him who asserts. She said the plaintiffs were expected to succeed on the strength of their case and not on the weakness of the defence. Justice Chikere said  Section 225 (a), (b) and (c) of the amended 1999 Constitution stated  that “INEC shall have power to deregister a political party for bridge  of any of the requirements for registration; failure to win at least 25  per cent of the votes cast in one state of the nation in a presidential  election, one local government of a state in a governorship election and  failure to win at least one ward in a chairmanship election, one seat  in national or state house of assembly election and one seat in  counsellorship election.” According to the judge, the section is very clear and unambiguous. She noted that the  Supreme Court had previously decided on a related case, pointing out  that “it is a settled law that lower courts are bound by the previous  decisions of appellant courts in construction of statutory provisions .” Justice Chikere,  therefore, affirmed the power of the INEC to deregister the 32 political  parties for non compliance with the provisions of the constitution. It would be recalled that Justice Taiwo Taiwo of a Federal High  Court, Abuja, had also ruled in favour of INEC against the National  Unity Party (NUP) and Hope Democratic Party (HDP). The affected parties  are: Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD), Advanced Nigeria Democratic  Party (ANDP), All Blending Party (ABP), All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP),  Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Democratic People’s Congress  (DPC), Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) and Green Party of Nigeria (GPN). Also on the list are Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) and National Interest Party (NIP). Others are the  Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), People’s Party of Nigeria  (PPN), People for Democratic Change (PDC), Peoples Coalition Party  (PCP), Progressives Peoples Alliance (PPA) and Red-build Nigeria Party  (RBNP). Others are  Restoration Party of Nigeria (RP), United Democratic Party (UDP), United  Patriot (UP), We The People Nigeria (WTPN), Young Democratic Party  (YDP), Save Nigeria Congress (SNC), Change Advocacy Party (CAP),  Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) and All Grassroots Alliance (AGA). Alliance of Social  Democrats (ASD), Democratic Alternative (DA), New Generation Party of  Nigeria (NGP), Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Nigeria For Democracy  (NFD) and Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN), also made the list. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.