Nigeria LNG Ltd. (NLNG) has donated medical equipment to the Lagos  State Government as part of its contributions to the 30 million dollars  Oil and Gas Industry Collaborative Initiative to fight the COVID-19  pandemic. Eyono Fatayi-Williams, General Manager, External Relations and
Sustainable Development, NLNG, said in a statement that the donation was
received by Prof. Akin Abayomi, the State Commissioner for Health. Fatayi-Williams, who represented the NLNG’s Managing Director, Mr Tony Attah, said the initiative by the oil
sector was being spearheaded by the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) to combat the virus. “The donation, worth 300,000 dollars is part of the company’s 1.25
million dollars worth of donations to six states of the federation in
its contribution toward the NNPC-led Oil Industry COVID-19 intervention
fund. “The donation to Lagos State will go to supporting the COVID-19 response at the Lagos Mainland Hospital. “Equipment donated include: Mindray SV300 ventilators, infusion
pumps, Surgicare patient monitor, hospital cart, Mindray haematology
analyser, stat analyser, stat reagent, cartridge and automated chemistry
analyser. “Other items are medical infusion pump, blood warmers, arterior blood
gas analyser, perfusor compact, automated haematology analyser,
AED/Defibrillators ICU patient beds with remote controls and PVC
mattress covers,” Attah said. According to him, it also includes, Visco elastic mattresses, Desco
hospital pillows, overbed tables and bedside cabinet combination units. Attah said the donations were part of the industry’s ongoing contribution to the states to help push back the pandemic. He noted that the virus still remained a huge threat to the country’s
socioeconomic wellbeing, which would require concerted efforts and
sacrifices from everyone in the country to fight. Attah said the interventions signified NLNG’s resolve to stand with
both the Federal and State Governments during these trying times and to
reciprocate the goodwill and support to the company over the years. He commended the state government for its determination and
resilience in fighting the pandemic and effectively managing the impact
on businesses and residents. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA