Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri  says local government workers in Adamawa will soon join their state counterparts to enjoy payment of the thirty thousand naira national  minimum wage. The Governor revealed this on Friday during a town  hall meeting organized in the Banquet Hall, Government House, Yola in  commemoration of democracy day celebration marks on twelve June  annually. The Governor said his
administration has approved thirty two thousand naira minimum wage for
state government workers and therefore it will facilitate same to local
government workers at the local government level. He added that  his administration has made on ground the State Civil Service which was  characterised with irregularities but was able to be revived it through  reformations such reintroduction of exams for promotion into the office  of permanent secretary. On the education sector, Governor Fintiri  said within his one year in office, government has paid counterpart  funding for Universal Basic Education UBE emoluments for the year 2016,  2017, 2018 and 2019 while process for accessing 2020 grant has been  completed. Governor Umaru Fintiri revealed that state government
under his watch is paying N10.5m monthly for purchase of learning and
instructional materials for public schools in Adamawa. He  further said construction on over 300 kilometres of rural roads were  ongoing in addition over 18.3 kilometres of new roads are under  construction in the state capital which are at the various stages of  completion. Governor Umaru Fintiri during the interactive  session also dwell much in the giant strides achieved by his  administration in the areas of security, health, state debt profile  among others. Governor Umaru Fintiri during the interactive  session, also dwelt much on the giant strides achieved by his  administration in the areas of security, health, state debt profile  among others. He also declared that his administration will not  relent in its efforts and will continue to do its best to deliver the  state to greater heights and urged support and understanding from the  people. Earlier in his remark, the Secretary to the State  Government SSG, Malam Bashir Ahmad said the town hall meeting was  organized by government in commemoration of democracy day celebration. In his vote of thanks, the Commissioner of Information and Strategy,
Doctor Umar Garba Pella said the town hall meeting will be a continues
one adding that the meeting will next hold in Mubi and Ganye
respectively as similar was earlier held in Numan. The  interactive session which was anchored by Mr Timawus Mathias, a veteran  journalist was attended by senior government officials, politicians and  representatives of civil society organizations. Highlight of the town hall meeting was a mini documentary presentation and questions and answers sessions. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.