Wife of Zamfara Governor,  Hajiya Aisha Bello-Matawalle  has trained 60 women in production  of face masks and hand sanitisers,  as part efforts to control  spread of Coronavirus pandemic in the state. Speaking while flagging off the training in Gusau on  Thursday, the governor’s wife’s  said: “This is another good response to  the COVID -19 prevention plans for people of the state under Gov.   Bello Matawalle’s administration “Few weeks ago, my office made relentless efforts to  cushion the effect of the lockdown due to Coronavirus pandemic among our  women and vulnerable groups across the state. “We provided palliatives and preventive materials  including hand sanitisers, face masks, hand gloves, soaps, sensitisation  flyers, clothing materials and foodstuffs. “Our support to women in the state will still continue in the wake of the pandemic.  “We deemed it imperative to mobilise local tailors from grassroots to produce home made PPEs. “It is my honour today to launch the Mask-up Zamfara  initiative programme sponsored under my office, which is a hand  sanitisers and face masks production training programme for women in  response to  COVID 19 prevention in the state.” According to her, the training program which is  targeting 20 women in each of the three senatorial zones, will be scaled  up to all the fourteen Local Government Areas of the state. “The training is aimed at capacity building for women  and also to equip them to produce massive numbers of face masks and hand  sanitisers as well as impacting the knowledge to other women.  “Though Zamfara has been declared COVID-19 free, but the dust is yet to settle across the country. “I hope that this initiative will bring positive impact on  the lives of women and children in the state,” she said. She noted that the effort would make face masks and hand  sanitisers more accessible to people at the grassroots level as part of  government’s efforts of protecting people from infectious diseases. “I want to use this medium to express my gratitude to my  husband,  for his incessant support and advise to this laudable  initiative, which amongst others has led to many tremendous successes. “I pray for Allah’s guidance and support for  his leadership to move the state to greater level,” she said. The  governor’s wife urged women in the state to  continue to take steps to protect themselves and their children against  COVID-19 and other diseases. She also appealed to people of the state to continue  with prayers to Allah to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic all over the  world. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA