The Gombe State Government has constructed and equipped a 12-bed  Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at its Specialist Hospital, Dr Ahmed Gana, the  state’s Commissioner for Health, has said. Gana said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
in Gombe on Friday while giving an account of Gov. Inuwa Yahaya’s
stewardship in the health sector within one year in office. According to him, the decision to construct the ICU was informed by
the recommendations of a  task force on health which was inaugurated by
the governor to identify the challenges in the sector as well as
solutions. He said prior to the construction of the ICU unit, patients were being referred to the Federal Teaching Hospital, Gombe. Gana said the health sector under the Yahaya administration was accorded the highest priority in terms of intervention. The commissioner said prior to the advent of the Yahaya
administration, the health sector was in a state of decay, with the
general hospitals across the state on the verge of collapse. He said the Specialist Hospital, the premier health facility, also
had its own challenges, although “90 per cent” had now been addressed in
terms of equipment and expansion to meet demand. Gana said within one year in office, the Accident, Emergency and
Trauma Unit of the Specialist Hospital was demolished and reconstructed
while the Maternity Ward was expanded and laboratories equipped. He said digital X-ray machines were equally procured for the first
time in the history of the state while a transit camp for the training
of house officers was at the level of completion. The commissioner also disclosed that the Medical and Dental Council
would soon be visiting the state, preparatory to commencement of
training of house officers. The commissioner further said the governor facilitated relationships
with international organisations to fund health activities in the state. He said in the area of primary health care delivery, 114 primary
health care facilities were identified across the 114 wards in the state
and equipped for optimum service to the people at the grassroots. Gana said allocating 10 per cent of the 2020 total budget was a clear
indication that the governor had prioritised the health sector. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in January, Yahaya
signed three bills into law in a bid to reposition the health sector for
easy accessibility and affordability to a greater majority of the
people in the state. NAN reports that the bills earlier passed by the state House of
Assembly included the Gombe State Management Board Law 2019 and Gombe
State Contributory Healthcare Management Law, 2019. Also passed was the Gombe State Council on Public Procurement and Public Procurement Bureau Law, 2019.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA