The Association for Hajj and Umrah
Operators of Nigeria, says it has recorded losses sequel to the
suspension of pilgrimage by the Saudi authorities occassioed by
coronavirus crisis. Abdul’Aziz Halliru, Kano Zonal
Chairman of the association, told newsmen on Tuesday in Kano that the
pandemic negatively affected their operations and exposed its members to
immeasurable loss. Halliru called on the Federal
Government to expand the scope of the N50 billion palliative  programme
initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), to cushion the effects
of the pandemic on the economy. Citing the recent suspension of
flights to Saudi Arabia, the chairman noted that members of the
association suffered loss running into millions of dollars. Halliru said in view of their
contributions to the social and economic development of the country
there is the need to involve them in various interventions initiated by
the apex bank. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports
that CBN has initiated a N50 billion facility to support agricultural
enterprises, businesses, manufacturing, tourism and other sectors of the
economy affected by the pandemic. He said: “we have gone through the CBN N50 billion incentive offer,
but we are not all that optimistic of benefitting from it because we
have not been consulted. “The Federal Government should consider our members because we are the worse hit by coronavirus crisis. “When policies like this are made, our
members should be captured considering the amount of turnover and
revenue we generate for the Federal Government through our business”. He expressed happiness over the
emergence of a new management of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria
(NAHCON), adding that they would work with the new leadership to facili
smooth airlift of pilgrims to the Holy Land. “We thank God that the new leadership
of NAHCON, it came at a time when we have all the challenges and they
have agreed to work with us. We are ready to give them maximum support
and cooperation. “We have held meetings with NAHCON and
we have seen a new face that comes with new ideas; and we are ready to
work with them,” he said. He, however, urged pilgrims who had
registered before the suspension of the Hajj exercise by Saudi
authorities not to panic as measures have been put in place to ensure
that their expenses are protected. “Effective measures are put in place
to ensure that those who have booked flights with our members that they
are not going to lose their money. “Once the suspension is lifted, they
will make use of their tickets. We are working round the clock to ensure
that they will be duly compensated and we are happy that the Saudi
authorities are cooperating with us in this regard,” he added Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA