Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning,  has inaugurated a 17-member National Steering Committee for the States  Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS)  Programme-For-Results. The minister inaugurated the committee on Tuesday in Abuja, charging
members to consider the assignment as a call to national duty and ensure
results were achieved within specified timelines. Giving a history of the programme, Ahmed said it was introduced by
the Federal Government in 2017 in collaboration with the World Bank to
strengthen fiscal transparency, accountability and sustainability in the
states. “It is financed with the loan of 750 million dollars from the World
Bank to support the states through the provision of performance-based
grants for which 700 million dollars has been earmarked. “The balance of 50 million dollars is for financing of technical
assistance to enable the states achieve specified Disbursement Linked
Indicators (DLIs) toward qualification for the grants.” According to her, the DLIs are derived from the already established
22-point Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) by the Federal Government and
the Open Government Partnership (OGP) commitments. She said it was aimed at strengthening the desired fiscal reforms at
the sub-national levels, while participation in the programme was open
to all states including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Ahmed said that the committee’s responsibility was to review the
status of disbursements to states and review the progress in the
implementation of the programme. It would also review the status of delivery of the capacity building
programme across the states by implementing agencies and partners. Mr Aliyu Ahmed, Permanent Secretary, Special Duties at the ministry,
said that strengthened fiscal transparency would help build trust in
government and enhance the monitoring of fiscal risks. He added that it would also facilitate accountability in public resource management. “In the same vein, a stronger accountability will significantly
reduce the opportunities and incentive for corruption and abuse of
public resources, thereby increasing the efficiency of public
expenditures.” Ahmed added that the level of achievement of the DLIs by a state determines the amount of grant to be disbursed to it. Miss Yue Man Lee, Team Leader of SFTAS from the World Bank said it
was the organisation’s largest state level programme, covering all 36
states. She said that apart from benefitting and supporting the states, it
was aimed at strengthening federal and states fiscal policy
coordination. Lee added that it would hopefully help to reduce the fiscal risks in
difficult economic times by supporting states to implement the FSP. “We hope that the states will take the opportunity through SFTAS to
really strengthen their Public Finance Management (PFM) systems so that
they will be self sustained beyond SFTAS. “SFTAS has built on several projects that the bank has done at the
state levels that provided the foundation for us to do a programme
focused on results. “We hope that SFTAS will serve as a model for future world bank engagements to the states.” According to Lee, for the first year of the programme, 24 states met
their eligibility criteria and participated in the programme. She added that based on preliminary assessments, in the second year of the programme, 33 states would be participating. The SFTAS team leader, however, said that the committee had a
critical role in ensuring the success of the programme by providing
strategic guidance and oversight. “This should start with looking at the successes and learnings from
the first annual performance assessment of the states by the Office of
the Auditor-General as the independent verification agent,” she said. Also speaking, Mr Anthony Ayine, the Auditor-General of the
Federation (AuGF), who spoke on behalf of the committee, said fiscal
discipline and accountability at the sub-national level was very
important for the country. “For us as the committee, we should look beyond the period of this
programme and I want to appeal to the participating states for their
cooperation and for us even beyond the programme to institutionalise the
concept of the programme. “If we can go beyond the grants that is to be given as reward for the
result and the concept is sustained beyond the programme period, it
will be a good thing.” He, however, assured that the committee would put in everything to ensure the success of the programme. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Mahmoud Isa-Dutse,
Permnanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance is the chairman of the
committee, while members include Ms. Patience Oniha, Director-General,
Debt Managament Office (DMO) and Mr Yemi Kale, Statistician-General. Others are Dr Mohammed Tumala, Director, Statistics Department,
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Dr Abdul-Ganiyu Obatoyinbo,
Administrator, Public Service Institute among others. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA