A Clinical Virologist, Dr Adeola Fowotade, says that COVID-19’s death  rate is not as high as similar outbreaks like the 2003 SARS or the 2012  MERS. Fowotade, of the University College Hospital, Ibadan, said this while  speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Ibadan. NAN reports that COVID-19, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and  Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) are different strains of a  family of viruses known as coronavirus. According to Fowotade, while COVID-19 is more widespread, it is not as deadly as SARS and MERS. She also said that although the number of COVID-19 deaths has exceeded that of SARS, the death rate is not as high. “The COVID-19 that emerged in December 2019 appears to be more severe  when you look at how quickly it has infected a large number of people  and freely spread from one country to others. “It has higher transmissibility and has the potential to infect four more persons, if one person is infected. “However, COVID-19 appears to be less severe in terms of its fatality rate in comparison with SARS and MERS. “As of March 2020, COVID-19 cases are over 120,000, with 4,635 deaths  recorded, while SARS, which originated from China in 2002, didn’t spread  as fast and took months to infect many people. “SARS infected 8,096 people worldwide and killed 774 persons. “MERS, which has killed over 800 of the 2,494 confirmed cases, spread to only 28 countries,” she said. The virologist said that COVID-19 also had mild to moderate symptoms in  most healthy people without pre-existing medical conditions. “It is important to remember that 80 percent of the people infected with  COVID-19 present mild to moderate symptoms, while 20 percent develop  severe illnesses, like pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress  Syndrome. “People, who seem to be at highest risk of serious illnesses from  COVID-19, are adults over the age of 60 or people who have underlying  medical conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes and heart disease. “The important message here is that: don’t panic; this too shall pass,” she said. Fowotade stressed that everyone should continue to observe standard hygiene rules like regular hand washing. NAN reports that the World Health Organisation had, on Wednesday,  declared COVID-19 a global pandemic, after it had affected 124 countries  and territories. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA