The Federal Road  Safety Corps (FRSC) has tasked its Sector Commanders to brace up, be  more proactive and ensure strict sustenance of the existing cooperation  with the governments of the states where they are domiciled. The FRSC Corps Marshal,  Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, gave the charge in a  statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeeem, in  Abuja on Saturday. Oyeyemi said that  this was needed especially as it relates to enforcing restrictions of  movement and spacing of passengers in order to stem the tide of  Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria.   He  reiterated the need for all staff to guard themselves against the  virus, adding that the corps must be at alert to fight the coronavirus  in the country   “As at now, COVID-19 pandemic is being tackled at all levels of government, with more cases being detected in various states. “As such, it has  become imperative for  commanding officers to brace up, be more  proactive than ever before, and provide the needed leadership in their  respective commands through sustenance of collaboration with state  governments,” he said. Oyeyemi noted that  most of the governors had made specific statements on how they intend to  combat the spread of the virus in their states. He added that the  cardinal responsibility of the sector commanders would be to play  whatever roles that the state governments assigned to the corps with all  sense of commitment, service and diligence. Oyeyemi charged the  corps to effectively communicate all directives emanating from the FRSC  headquarters and the state governments to every operative of the corps  on a regular basis. He added that it would help to keep all staff abreast with every bit of information for effective enforcement. According to him,  in  states where the governments have pronounced a total lock down, the  commanding officers must make every possible arrangement to ensure total  enforcement of the restriction through increased visibility. “In addition,  commands whose operational jurisdiction are along the major corridors  where total lock down has been declared must station patrol teams to  maintain visibility and enhance compliance,” he said. Oyeyemi directed the  sector commanders to maintain maximum precautionary measures by ensuring  that protective materials are provided for all patrol and rescue team  members. He also ordered that  under no circumstance must FRSC staff be seen attending to motorists  without the proper protection kit. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA