Panama and Mongolia have each confirmed their first case of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19).President Laurentino
Cortizo of Panama said on Twitter on Tuesday that his country was able
to identify it early after applying all the protocols of the World
Health Organisation (WHO). “After applying all the protocols of the World Health Organisation we
can confirm the first COVID-19 case in our country … We have identified
it early, so we may remain calm,” Cortizo wrote on Twitter. Panama’s Health Minister Rosario Turner said at a news conference
that the infected person was a 40-year-old woman who had sought medical
assistance after she suffered fever upon her return from Spain.Her condition is assessed as stable.In Mongolia, the
first case of infection was confirmed after a patient, who is a French
citizen was tested, the Mongolian Montsame news agency reported on
Tuesday, citing the health minister. According to the media outlet, the Mongolian State Emergency
Commission convened a meeting on Tuesday morning over the first COVID-19
case reported in the country. “A team of professionals of the National Center for Communicable Diseases has been sent to Dornogobi aimag (province).“The health state of the French national is relatively stable.“Despite the
recommendation for 14-day self-quarantine from medics upon his fever,
the citizen has gone outside, ignoring the recommendation,” the health
minister said during the meeting, as quoted by the media outlet. Two Mongolian nationals who were in contact with the tourist have also left Dornogovi.According to the commission, they will all be held responsible for violating quarantine rules. So far, the number of people who have contracted the coronavirus disease globally has exceeded 114,000, and over 4,000 died. The virus has spread  to more than 100 countries since emerging in China in December,  according to Johns Hopkins University. (Sputnik/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.