The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has reaffirmed its commitment to support girl-child education in Kano state. The UNICEF Chief Field Officer, Kano,
Mr Maulid Warfa, gave the assurance in Kano on Wednesday at a mentoring
workshop for 100 selected girls from Junior and senior secondary
schools. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports
that  the workshop was organised by Kano state Universal Basic Education
Board/High Level Women Advocates in collaboration with UNICEF. NAN also reports that the event was part of the activities to
commemorate the 2020 International Women’s Day which was celebrated in
the March 8. He said UNICEF would give the Kano
state government all the needed support  to ensure effective
implementation of girl-child education project in the state. He said unless girls are given the opportunity to access education, they would not be able to achieve their dreams in life. “If girls are educated many problems
will be addressed. Educated women will not allow their children to miss
the routine immunization. “Educated women will also take good care of their children,” the UNICEF official said. Warfa stressed the need for the state
governments to continue to give priority attention to education in order
to address the fundamental social problems bedevilling the society. The workshop with theme: “I am
Generation Equality:Realising Women’s Rights,” was aimed at mentoring
the girls by women professionals to increase access and reduce
challenges to their education. In her remarks, the state
chairperson of the High Level Women Advocates (HILWA), Prof. Aisha
Abdul-Ismail, said the association was working in six Local Government
Areas on advocacy visit to enlighten parents, especially at the rural
areas on the importance of girl-child education. “We have started seeing the result of
what we are doing because the number of girls in schools have started
increasing,” she said.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that women professionals from various fields including
engineers, doctors and lawyers among others spoke on their various field
of studies at the event. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA