Some medical Doctors on Sunday, urged stakeholders and the general  public to adhere strictly to the World Health Organisation (WHO)  guidelines for preventing and containing the dreaded coronavirus  outbreak. In separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Lagos, the doctors also called for massive awareness campaigns to
educate the general public on actions that could lead to contraction of
the disease and the possible preventive measures. Also, the Nigeria Representative, WHO, Dr Clement Peter, urged the
Media to ensure dissemination of truthful and helpful information
concerning the disease. Peter said that there was need for creation of massive awareness
campaigns, saying that a lot of people have not gotten the right
information about the coronavirus disease. According to him, at a time like this, there are bound to be lots of
rumours and false information as already observed in the social media. “People should be mindful of the information they circulate on the
social media; False information that triggers panic should not be
encouraged. “The current medical emergency of coronavirus disease cannot be controlled by fear or panic. “The media is a vital instrument at this time and it should not allow
itself to be used to disseminate false information or information that
may be adding ‘salt to the injury’. “The WHO stipulated preventive measures are clear; everyone should
uphold the hygienic practices of regular hand washing with soap and
water. “Both private and public health facilities should conform with expected universal precaution when attending to all clients. “The general public should ensure that any individual that is sick
with fever must promptly seek medical attention in recognised health
facilities or report to the government,” Peter said. The WHO Representative, therefore, urged the Federal Government to
ensure the capacity to detect, treat, manage or even refer any case of
the disease at any time. Similarly, a Medical Imaging Scientist, Dr Livinus Abonyi, urged
workers at all entry points of the country to be extra vigilant. Abonyi, a lecturer in the Department of Medical Radiography, Faculty
of Clinical Sciences at University of Lagos College of Medicine, urged
the government to ensure that anybody entering into the country be
quarantined and monitored for at least five days to be sure that he or
she was certified free of the virus. He said the quarantine mechanism should not be limited to people from
the established coronavirus index countries but should cut across
everyone coming into Nigeria; irrespective of his or her originating 
country. He, therefore, called for continuity of efforts in the tracing of
contact persons of the Italian coronavirus patient and said that
tracking them was a first step in preventing spread of the disease in
Nigeria. Abonyi also advised that the current medical situation in Nigeria
calls for extreme practice of personal hygiene by everyone at all times. Contributing, the Medical Director, MercyWay medical centre, Ejigbo
Lagos, Dr Omogbohun Patrick, called for grassroot sensitisation of the
general public on the symptoms of coronavirus disease. Patrick said that a lot of people particularly at the rural areas
have not gotten adequate information about the symptoms or preventive
measures of the disease. “Information is key in a development like this; if there is lack of
information and people are ignorant of the precautions; they can easily
fall victim. “But when people have first-hand information on the symptoms and
preventions of the disease; it becomes easy to manage and nobody will
die as a result of the disease,’’ Patrick said. He, however, decried the scarcity and hikes in the price of facemask
at this period when it was needed most in the management of coronavirus
disease. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA