Lagos State Government says it has received a cheque of N1 billion  from the United Bank for Africa (UBA), as part of the bank’s commitment  to help curb the spread of Coronavirus. A statement by Gboyega Akosile, Chief Press Secretary to Gov.
Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Monday said the cheque was presented to the
governor, by the Managing Director of the bank, Mr Kenneth Uzoka on
Sunday at Lagos House, Marina. Receiving the cheque, Sanwo-Olu thanked the financial institution for
the support, as the money will go a long way to assist the state in
kicking out the pandemic. ”We appreciate UBA. This is not the kind of money that we would want to take for granted. ”This is really an important intervention and this fund will go a
long way to meet all of our needs both now and in the future, to ensure
that Lagos continues to remain safe for business. ”We are indeed happy that you decided to make this very bold move to support the health facility infrastructure in Lagos. ”You can be rest assured that once the structures have been
developed, we will call you again to see what we have put these
resources to,” he said. Also speaking, Uzoka, said that the N1 billion donation was also in
fulfilment of the N5 billion commitment made by the UBA Group Chairman,
Mr Tony Elumelu. He said that as a socially responsible institution, UBA cared for its
communities and for Lagos State, which had recorded the highest number
of positive cases thus far, hence, needing special attention. According to him, the decision to give Lagos N1 billion is as a
result of the important role that the state plays in the economy of not
only Nigeria, but Africa as a whole, given its vast population and other
key economic factors. ”Given the population of this state and that it is the business nerve
centre, we at UBA are committed to lending our support to the state
government. ”So today, we are giving you and the state N1 billion to support your endeavour in fighting the Coronavirus disease. ”I will not fail to mention that this was not an easy decision for us because Lagos is just one of the many states in Nigeria. ”However, we looked at the importance of Lagos to Nigeria, but more
importantly, we looked at the fact that Lagos has set up the right
structure to administer whatever it is that we are giving to the state. ”So, we are rest assured, because we believe without an iota of doubt
that the state will use these funds effectively and efficiently,” he
said. The bank had announced a donation of over N5 billion equivalent to 14
million dollars, through the UBA Foundation, to catalyse a
comprehensive pan-African response to the fight against the COVID-19
global pandemic. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA