The Federal Capital Territory Internal
Revenue Service (FCT IRS) says it is targeting to collect N100 billion
revenue in the territory in 2020. The Executive Chairman of FCT IRS, Mr Abdullahi Attah
disclosed this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Abuja on Sunday. He said based on the preparation put in place and the
records of what the service had realised since it took over from the
Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), the target would be achieved. According  to him, the service to key into Integrated Tax
Administration System (ITAS) by the end of this year would help to
double or triple collection of tax in FCT. He explained that the service would continue to sensitise
the public on their activities, adding that inadequate awareness
creation was still a challenge the FCT IRS was being confronted with. “One of our challenges is on awareness creation, in the
1950s, 60s and 70s, Nigerians then understood the value of taxation and
they filed their taxes without being asked. “We are now planning to sensitise the citizens in this regard so they can pay their taxes and file return voluntarily. “I know it will take a while but we will get there with massive campaign and awareness creation,” he said. The chairman emphasised the need to focus on tax collection
to boost revenue, adding that relying on oil was not good for a country
like Nigeria. He said that if Nigeria developed a culture to pay tax, it
would help to further increase the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the
country. Speaking on the call to bring informal sector to the tax net, Attah said it was a welcome development. He noted that though the service under his leadership was
currently working to leverage the formal sector by ensuring those due to
pay tax do so. According to him, in spite its concentration on the formal
sector, effort is also ongoing to bring the informal sector like traders
and artisans to the tax net in due course. “We may not get revenue from informal sector as much as we
can from formal sector, for instance the tax you collect from 1,000
tricycle owners you can collect from few residents of Asokoro and
Maitama. “We are now concentating on the ‘Parato Principle’ of 20,
80, that is focusing on 20 per cent of people that will give you 80 per
cent of the revenue.” The chairman commended FIRS for the smooth hand over of tax collection to the FCT. He also commended the FIRS for donating facilities,  vehicles and personnel for the smooth take-off of FCT IRS in January  2018. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.