A cleric, Prophet Christopher Owolabi, on Monday says the recent  advent of strange diseases in many countries globally is a sign of end  time phenomenon that require divine intervention. Owolabi, the General Overseer (GO) of Christ Apostolic Church,
Ori-Oke Irapada, Omu-Aran in Kwara, made the assertion during the
church’s special Lent service in Omu-Aran, Irepodun Local Government
Area of the state. Owolabi, who claimed that the advent of most of the recent diseases
plaguing the countries were more artificial than natural, urged the
people to return back to God in righteousness. According to him, most people have deviated from God’s commandments
and even now associating with those things that are forbidden in the
Holy Scriptures. “Some people prefer animals as sex mates, while others find interest in experimenting with animals in an ungodly manner. “The end product and outcome of these anomalies are what we are
experiencing today in form of strangest diseases like Ebola, Lassa fever
and very recently Covid-19 also known as Coronavirus,” he said. The man of God said the situation was more compounded as many religious leaders were now perpetrators of crime and criminality. He urged Christians to engage more in prayers during the Holy season
and do away with their past mistakes and misdeeds in order for them to
attain the desired salvation. “Those who are supposed to be role models, guidance, counsellors and
shapers of youths are now enmeshed in rituals, kidnapping, fraud,
extortion and so on. “All these are signs that we are gradually moving toward the end time
era and only those who chose to be righteous will gain the desired
salvation,” he said. Owolabi urged those at the helm of the nation’s affairs to always
remember the masses and imbibe transparency, diligence, honesty and
accountability. He also called on the youths to be ready, morally and academically,
in assuming the nation’s leadership positions in the nearest future. “A lot of expectations are on the youth to do things differently,
through sound moral and academic excellence, in steering the ship to the
Promised Land,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA