The Plateau Government has declared that all the 43 persons
quarantined in Wase Local Government Area of the state are free from the
Corona Virus (COVID-19). The state’s Health Commissioner, Dr Nimkong Ndam, stated this while
briefing the press at the end of the State Executive Council meeting in
Jos on Wednesday. Ndam,therefore, said that there was no case of confirmed Corona Virus in the state. “After the 14 days period given to monitor the 43 quarantined
persons, which ended on March 10 and 11, we can confirm that they are
not infected,” he said. Ndam said that a team from the Federal Ministry of Health, World
Health Organisations, Nigeria Immigration Service and security agencies
were in the council area to review and examine the quarantined persons. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 43 persons including four
Chinese miners were quarantined by the State Government after the
Chinese had contacts with some people. The commissioner said that the measure was taken to forestall the
spread of the COVID-19, which had killed more than 2000 persons in China
since its outbreak in December 2019. “The isolation is a medical routine following four Chinese miners who arrived Jos, Nigeria on Feb. 25 and 26 from China, “We are happy to inform the world that nobody is infected with the
virus in the state, but there is a need for us to focus on the
preventive measures,” he said. Ndam urged residents of the state to imbibe the culture of keeping their environment and body clean at all times. “Maintain personal hygiene, cover your mouth with handkerchiefs and
tissue when coughing, wash your hands with soap and water,  use hand
sanitisers. “School authorities should make water and soap available for hand
washing, public offices should have hand sanitisers  in their offices
and disinfect offices especially frequently used door knobs,” he said. NAN reports that Nigeria currently has two confirmed cases of Corona
Virus, the first was reported on Feb. 27 the of an Italian, while the
second is an index case of the Italian. Earlier, Mr Dan Manjang, the Information Commissioner said the
executive council meeting was also used to review performance level of
the 12 committees set up by the state government for different tasks. Manjang said that reports of the committees on environmental
sanitation, community policing and tricycle and motorcycle activities
were deliberated upon.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA