Ekiti Government has commenced the distribution of hand sanitisers,  hand gloves and face masks to all public primary and secondary schools  in the state. The Commissioner of Health and Human Services,  Dr Mojisola Yaya-
Kolade, disclosed this at a Public Awareness Programme on Tuesday in Ado
Ekiti. The commissioner said the government  was doing its best to stop
COVID-19 from getting to the state, adding that it would not relent in
that direction. “The efforts of Ekiti  Government at combating the virus cannot be
quantified and this include the recent setting up of a 40-man committee
headed by the governor of the state, apart from releasing money for
immediate action”, she said. Yaya-Kolade urged the general public to disregard rumour about the
virus adding that they should only believe  information from reliable
and authorised sources. The commissioner encouraged the residents observe strict personal and
environmental hygiene as a measure of curtailing infectious diseases. She also urged residents to desist from kissing, handshake, hugging
and other intimate activities that would put them at risk of the disease
during this period. A cross section of residents, who spoke at the programme, commended
the quick response of the government to check the spread of COVID-19 to
the state. They urged religious leaders in country to support government’s
efforts at curbing the spread of the disease through prayers and
sensitisation of their congregations on the preventive measures and
symptoms of the disease. Mr Olawale Ogungbe, a resident said the initiative would go a long way to check the spread of the disease. Similarly, Mrs Iya Olowo, Pastor Ola Joshua and Alfa Kola
Jejelayegba, all  commended the state government for the sensitisation
programme and called for its sustenance across the state to achieved the
desired result. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA