The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, says his  ministry has not received any request from Nigerians abroad for their  evacuation in view of the global Novel Coronavirus (COVID19) pandemic  outbreak. Onyeama made this known on Tuesday in Abuja at the Presidential Task Force briefing on update of COVID-19 in the country. “As of now, we do not have any request from any of the embassies from Nigerians wishing to be evacuated from various countries. “But certainly, if we receive notification from any of our embassies, we will react accordingly,” he said. The minister, responding to an allegation, said it was not true that a
Nigerian lady and her husband were poorly treated in Lome, Togo, while
on their way back from Brazil, through Addis Ababa, to the country. He said that the Government of Togo was placing anyone coming from a
foreign country in isolation, saying that they were rightly placed in a
four-star hotel. “They were kept in separate rooms, and because the period of
isolation is still on, our ambassador is not even allowed to see them. “But, he is aware that they are well looked after; so, it is wrong to
say that a Nigerian lady is living in deplorable conditions in Togo,”
he said. Meanwhile, the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, said flights
considered essential for which permissions for landing might be sought
and granted included: Aircraft in a state of emergency, over flights and
operations related to humanitarian services, medical and relief
services. Sirika said others were alternate aerodromes identified in the flight
plan, including those used for extended diversion time operations,
technical stops where passengers do not disembark, cargo flights and
other safety related operations. The minister noted that with the exception of aircraft in a state of
emergency, request for approval for other flights was required and must
be directed to him, as the sole authority to grant approval. He stressed that protocol for the operation and handling of such
flights would be provided with each approval, while flight crew would 
not have physical contact with designated government officials and
ground workers.  Earlier, Chairman, Presidential Task Force for the control of  COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)  Governor had already rolled out a lot of economic stimuli that would  help to keep the economy going. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.