No fewer than 70 Agriculture Extension Officers have been trained on  best practice to oil palm nursery management to boost the produce in  Delta, says Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Mr  Julius Egbedi. Egbedi stated this on Wednesday at a
day training workshop in Delta Agricultural Development and Rural
Authority (DARDA), Ibusa, Oshimili Local Government Area of the state. He said the training was aimed at
building the capacity of Agricultural, Nursery Managers and Extension
Officers on best farm management practices in oil palm production. Egbedi added that the capacity
building also involved the use of Global Positioning System (GPS) for
pepper filed mapping and documentation. He explained that for farmers to
achieve optimal yield of the palm trees, the practice has to begin with
good nursery management. The commissioner said the state
government, in order to achieve its target of improving oil palm
production, had increased the number of its nurseries to three; one in
each senatorial district. “It is a fact that best post nursery
management practice is pivotal to the establishment of the seedlings and
the yield of established palm trees. “1,930 farmers were assisted with
inputs, such as seedlings, steel collars and fertilizers, to plant 4,425
hectares of oil palm between 2016 and 2019. “The Nigeria Institute for Oil Palm
(NIFOR) tenera sprouted nuts from which the seedlings distributed to our
farmers have the potential to yield over 30 metric tonnes per hectare. “However, it is sad to note that, in Delta, yield per hectare of oil palm is far below 10 metric tonnes per hectare. “Hence, the need for the training to
enable our farmers adopt best management practice for their palm
plantations to perform optimally,” Egbedi said. Speaking, Mr Ernest Otunkwo, General
Manager, TreeCrops Unit of the ministry, said that the need for training
was occasioned by the growing number of small holder farmers from 778
to 1,955 farmers across the state. “The administration of Gov. Ifeanyi
Okowa has invested so much in oil palm development and had grown the 778
small oil palm holder farmers to no fewer than 1,955 farmers through
provision of inputs and technical support. “This informed the need to train agric officers on best management practices for optimum harvest. “There is also the need for farm
enumerations as the extension officers assist the farmers to plant in
2017 with right specifications,” he said. He tasked the participants to tap
into the training and build their capacity for effective technical and
extension service delivery. Speaking similarly, Resource person,
Mr Prince Njoku, said the training was to strengthen the capacity of the
agric extension workers on best practices in oil palm nursery
management. He said that the challenge has been
that the farmers use the old palm seedlings for replanting instead of
going through a nursery. “We are training over 70 agriculture
extension officers from the 25 Local Government Areas of the state on
best practices, because they will in turn train the small holder farmers
which number has grown lager in the state. “There are lots of challenges when it comes to nursery management of oil palm. “A lot of farmers resort to existing
farm to take seedlings for replanting, instead of going through the
rigours of nursery; this is not good, as it would not yield better
produce,” he said. Responding on behalf of the
participants, Mr Frank Okolotu, Assistant Chief Agric Officer said the
training was a milestone to achieving high yielding oil palm produce in
the state. He thanked the government for the
opportunity, adding that they would replicate the training by training
the grassroots farmers on best practices. (NAN). Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA