Alhaji Rabo Saleh, National President, Federation of Tourism  Association of Nigeria (FTAN), on Tuesday commended the Federal  Government for its fight against COVID-19. Saleh gave the commendation while speaking with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He said the manner at which the Federal Ministry of Health swung into
action in sensitising Nigerians and acquiring the needed equipment for
testing and generally containing the viral outbreak was quite
impressive. He noted that the positive results achieved so far had helped the
tourism and hospitality chains of businesses in the country, which the
association was happy about. He, however, urged the Federal Ministry of Health to intensify
efforts to further salvaging the situation considering Nigeria’s
population and the numerous porous borders. “As a professional body, we commend the Federal Government on its ability to contain the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. “The activities of the Federal Ministry of Health and other health
organisations in containing the virus have yielded positive results and
FTAN is quite excited over this. “It is only unfortunate that the outbreak is having negative effect
on the tourism and aviation industries but being able to contain it is a
great achievement on the path of the health sector,” he said. The National President urged FG to increase the medical team and
diagnosis equipment at the local and international airports where lots
of people migrate into the country from other countries. He said that considering the fact that the viral outbreak had
negative effect on the tourism and hospitality industry, the association
was planning to hold some sensitisation programme with tourism
stakeholders. He said that the sensitisation programme would enlighten them on
precautionary measures to adopt to stay safe and healthy from contacting
the virus. “We need them to do more, more diagnosis materials and medical team should be deployed to our airports for proper examination. “We are also going to lend our voice to sensitise our members and
other tourism stakeholders to the needed precautionary measure to take
seriously. “This will be done in few weeks as we are currently speaking with the Federal Ministry of Health on it,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA