Traditional greetings involving bows and nods are being encouraged
across Asia as the coronavirus continues its energetic spread throughout
the region. Asian non-contact greetings are considered far safer than the western customs of shaking hands, hugging or kissing. Health experts on Wednesday advised against all unnecessary human contact as coronavirus continues to spread. Though not traditional, handshakes have become increasingly common across Asia in recent years, particularly in urban centres. In India, the coronavirus outbreak is prompting people to return to
the traditional namaste greeting. Known by yoga fans the world over, it
involves a slight bow of the head over pressed-together palms. Bollywood star Anupam Kher took to Twitter to advise his 15 million
followers to rediscover the greeting in the age of coronavirus. “I also want to suggest the age old Indian way of greeting people
called namaste. It is hygienic, friendly and centres your energies. Try
it.’’ He twitted In Thailand, the similar wai greeting is a key part of local
etiquette, and is performed by placing the hands together in front of
the chest and slightly bowing the head. The greeting, which is also used to say goodbye, sorry, and thank you, is traditionally initiated by the younger party. Cambodia’s sampeah greeting is similar, with a higher hand placement signifying greater respect. In China and Japan, where handshakes are in any case less common, the
common bow greetings are well suited to increased hygiene concerns. Non-contact greetings are not common everywhere in Asia, however. In
the Philippines handshakes are common in formal settings, as are kisses
on the cheek. It’s thought that Europeans, who are accustomed to both kissing and
shaking hands as standard greetings, could learn a lot from Asian
practices. German politicians received a memo urging them to observe hygiene standards and refrain from shaking hands. Elsewhere, the Strasbourg-based Council of Europe instructed staff: “Do not shake hands. Do not kiss.’’ In Catholic churches in Paris, the traditional sign of peace, a
moment during Mass when worshippers shake hands with one another has
been suspended. Other alternative greetings, including waving hands in the air  without touching, or bumping fists or elbows are also growing in  popularity around the world. (dpa/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.