The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, says the
state government has eliminated the threat of COVID-19 outbreak through
the Italian index case. Abayomi, briefing newsmen on the COVID-19 update on Friday in Lagos,
said that concerted efforts of government and its partners assisted in
breaking the cycle of transmission. According to him, the virus didn’t have opportunity to spread beyond one person. The commissioner said that the state government had intensified its
surveillance at the nation’s airports against another imported case. He, However, said that it was inevitable that there would be more outbreaks in Africa. Abayomi said that Lagos was intensifying its surveillance to ensure
that the health facilities does not get overwhelmed, in case there are
new cases. He added that the state government had sent more health personnel to
the airport to assist the Federal medical team to boost their
surveillance. The commissioner said that all the 179 people that had contact with the index case had been identified. He said: “40 of them were quarantined in Ogun State, while 139 were monitored in Lagos State”. “The contacts in both states have been discharged; they have exceeded
the 14 days of quarantine and isolation at home without developing any
symptom of the disease. The commissioner said that the second confirmed case of COVID-19, a
contact of the index case, had tested negative to two tests, adding that
he had been discharged. On the Italian index patient, Abayomi said that he was still at the
isolation centre, because “he is still secreting a little bit of the
virus, meaning he’s potentially still contagious. “Our test suggests that his immune system will soon clear off the
infection. The moment we pick that up, we will be looking for a second
negative. “Let’s say the next test tomorrow is negative, we will repeat it
after 48 hours, and if we still get negative, that means he’s deemed to
be non-contagious,” he said. Abayomi said that the index case would pose no danger to the
community at that point, saying that he was almost at that stage and
would be released soon. “That means we have broken the cycle of transmission in Lagos, we
have not given the virus the opportunity to spread beyond one person. “So, that index case that’s a threat to Lagos and Nigeria has been eliminated and we did not get an outbreak,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA