The Nigerian Army has started engaging Rivers youth planning to
enlist in the army to boost its internal security operations in the
country, an official said. Brig.-Gen. Emmanuel Akpan, Director, Directorate of Army Recruitment,
Resettlement and Reserve (DARRR), said this to newsmen on Saturday in
Port Harcourt shortly after meeting with various youth leaders in
Rivers. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the sensitisation forum was part
of a nationwide campaign to inform Nigerians on the new recruitment and
training policy by the army. According to Akpan, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur
Buratai, has made it mandatory for the inclusion of Special Forces
training for all recruits. “So, we are in Rivers state as part of a nationwide tour at the
instance of the COAS Strategic Directive 2020 that would take us to
every state in the federation. “The tour is aimed to appraise the youth on the current approach of
the Nigerian Army to the training of its personnel to serving as well as
recruitment into the system. “The essence of the special forces training is to ensure that all
army personnel can adapt and function efficiently in any operating
environment. The director said the army had also met with the youth in South
Eastern states of Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo states to inform them of
the new strategy. “So, we have just commenced the exercise for the South-South zone
starting from Akwa Ibom and now in River state. It has been tremendous
so far. “We solicit the support of government in the area of information
dissemination, support for state recruitment office as well as seek
support of successful indigenes in future recruitment process,” he
appealed. A cross section of youth leaders in their numbers representing their
various communities in the 23 Local Government Areas (LGA) of the state
lauded the army for the sensitisation exercise. Ikechukwu Nwodu, Youth President of Ubimiri community in Emohua LGA,
said the meeting was timely as it addressed the negative perception some
youth in the community had about army recruitment. “We are happy that the army decided to come to the grassroots to
engage us on its recruitment. This has not happened before,” he added. On his part, the National Council Coordinator in Ulakwo, Etche LGA,
Promise Onyekam, said that lack of information was partly responsible
for low enlistment of his people into the army. “So, from what we have learnt so far, we will communicate same to  people at our various communities and local government areas,” he noted. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.