The Church of the Nativity on Thursday was ordered closed and foreign
tourists were banned from West Bank hotels after four suspected
coronavirus cases were found in the Palestinian town of Bethlehem. The measures announced by the Palestinian Authority’s tourism
ministry came as a particular blow to the Biblical town, whose
businesses are largely dependent on Christian visitors to the church,
built on the traditional site of Jesus’s birth. The mayor and hoteliers said that Bethlehem, just three months ago,
was hailing its best Christmas for two decades, even better than the 1.5
million visitors it received in 2018. The Latin Patriarchate of the Holy Land said the Church of the
Nativity, which was first founded in 339 and rebuilt and extended over
the centuries, would be closed for two weeks, along with other churches
and mosques in the Bethlehem area. The ban on foreign guests at West Bank hotels will also last two weeks, the tourism ministry said. Joey Canavati, manager of the 58-room Alexander Hotel in Bethlehem said that it has affected them severely. “Our workers are essentially laid off for the next 14 days. We will be closed down completely. “It destroyed our business from every perspective,” Canavati said. He said that groups of tourists from the U.S., Poland and Cameroon had already cancelled their bookings. Palestinian health officials said they were examining whether four
workers at another hotel in Bethlehem had contracted coronavirus from
tourists who had stayed there recently. Police surrounded the hotel, as authorities awaited the results of laboratory tests. However, there have been no confirmed cases of the disease in the West Bank. Fifteen people have been diagnosed with the virus in neighbouring Israel. The Palestinian governor of the West Bank town of Nablus ordered its
Muslim and Christian holy sites shut as a public health precaution. The Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank under interim peace accords. On Wednesday, Israel ordered travellers arriving from Germany,
France, Spain, Austria and Switzerland to go into home quarantine over
coronavirus concerns and cancelled a military exercise with troops from
the U.S. European Command. “The measure effectively cut off foreign tourism from those
countries, whose citizens the Health Ministry said would not be allowed
into Israel unless they could show they had made quarantine arrangements
ahead of time. Israel has already imposed the edict with regard to flights from Italy, China and Singapore. (Reuters/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.