The Chief Missioner, Nasru-lahi-l-Fatih Society, NASFAT,  Imam Abdul-Azeez Onike, says men and women are equal in the sight of  Allah and are expected to perform all acts of worship and faith. Onike made the assertion in a statement on Sunday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. The United Nations has declared March 8 every year as the annual international women’s day. According to Onike, NASFAT, as an international  organisation, always aligns herself with the international norms,  values, standard and traditions. “In conformity with her tradition, NASFAT has lined up  various activities to mark the day, which coincidentally falls within  the period of 25th anniversary celebration of the society. “Top on the activities to mark the day include: project  25-25-25, meaning empowerment of 25 women in 25 trades in 25 locations  of Nasfat,” he said. Onike, quoting a scriptural reference, said: “There is  no gender superiority in Islam, but each sex playing the roles based on  the physiological and psychological make-up. “Whoever does righteousness, whether male or female,  while he is a believer- We will surely cause him to live a good life,  and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according  to the best of what they used to do. “I will not suffer the work of any of you, whether male or female, to go to waste; each of you is from the other. “My parting counsel (wasiyya) to you is to treat women  with kindness for verily they are your partners and committed helpers”  (Hadith).” He said that many women had held political power, while some jointly with their husbands, and others independently. “The best-known women rulers in the pre-modern era  include…..Kutlugh Khatun (thirteenth century) and her daughter Padishah  Khatun of the Kutlugh-Khanid dynasty; the fifteenth-century. “Andalusian queen Aishah al-Hurra , known by the  Spaniards as Sultana Madre de Boabdil ; Sayyida al-Hurra , governor of  Tetouán in Morocco (r. 1510 – 1542 ); and four seventeenth-century  Indonesian queens. “In the contemporary era, women have again assumed leadership roles in the Muslim world. Benazir Bhutto was Prime Minister of Pakistan  (1988-1990; 1993–1996 ), Tansu ç;iller was Prime Minister of Turkey  (1993 –1996), and Shaykh Hasina is the current Prime Minister of  Bangladesh (1996 –)” . According to Onike, even, the Holy Book mentioned Queen  of Sheba as a ruler regardless of the argument in some quarters that,  did she ruled as a believer? “Imam Hakim Naisapuri states: ‘One fourth of our  religion depends on the narrations of women. Were it not for those  narrations, we would lose a quarter of our religion. “Imam Dhahabi affirms: ‘There are many men who have  fabricated Hadith. However, no woman in the history of Islam has been  accused of fabrication. “The great Caliph Umar b. ‘Abdul ‘Aziz used to say: ‘If  you want to learn Hadith go to Amrah.’ Imam Zuhri, who is credited with  compiling the first systematically edited compilation of Hadith used to  say: ‘Go to Amrah, she is the vast vessel of Hadith’. “Two great Islamic Scholars, Imams Malik and Shafi were  taught by female teachers, Aisha bint Sa’ad bin Abi Waqqas and Nafisha  respectively.” Onike said that the patriarchal tendency and beliefs  were inherited attitudes from the period referred to as “Period of  Ignorance” which predated Islam. simply put, it’s a cultural rather than  religious concept. “But, if there is one thing that the women and men of  the late 20th century who have an awareness and enjoyment of history can  be sure of, it is that Islam was not sent from heaven to foster egotism  and mediocrity.” he said.(Margalit Fox) According to Onike, NASFAT, having realised that most of  the misconceptions held about women are due to deliberate distortion or  manipulation of textual provisions and that even most of the concept  degrading womanhood are not scripture based. “The society has been collaborating with many local and  international non-governmental organisations such as the Carter Centre  Inc. to champion the cause of better living intellectually and  financially for women in and outside Nasfat. Onike said that the misconception that women have no right to divorce was also cleared during such trainings. He cited the concept called khul‘, which refers to when  the woman asks her husband to separate from her in return for financial  compensation or giving up her mahr or part of it. “Islam’s acknowledgment of women’s equity in the  societal,  familiar, and spiritual spheres was unprecedented at its  time, and its demarcation of rights and obligations between men and  women remains unmatched to this day,” he said. Onike said that women were excused from prayer and  fasting during menstruation due to the weakness that accompanies  menstrual bleeding. “They are not ostracised nor deemed spiritually impure,  nor are they obligated to separate themselves from society (Omar Sulyman  et al, 2019). “Our religion appreciates the right of women to maintain  their identities if they so wish, even after marriage, rights to own  property, to be heard, to represent herself in court as well as testify  therein, pledge alliance, not under compulsion to spend her money on her  family, pledge allegiance. “There is a punishment for slander, defamation, or  accusation. To accuse someone without proof is a serious offense in  Islam; in particular, baselessly accusing a woman of committing an  immoral act is punishable by flogging. “It is an offence refered to as Qadhf, which from  indications stem from the need to protect the dignity of women even, by  implication, it applies to all human beings as well. “It is an offence against God, hence it carry Hadd (Divinely fixed punishment) of 80 lashes of cane. “And those who accuse chaste women and then do not  produce four witnesses – lash them with eighty lashes and do not accept  from them testimony ever after. And those are the defiantly  disobedient”. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.