Brig.- Gen. Emmanuel Akpan, the Director, Directorate of Army
Recruitment ,Resettlement and Reserve, on Friday said that  the Nigerian
Army was no longer a dumping ground for drop-outs. Akpan alongside his team mates who visited the Lagos State Government
said that the  vision of the Chief of Army Staff ( COAS) was to have a
better Army that can stand the test of time. He said that the essence of the campaign the Nigerian Srmy had
currently  embarked on  was to sensitise Nigerians that the Nigerian
Army would no longer recruit those considered as never-do-well in the
society. “The campaign is an avenue to convey the vision of the Chief of Army
Staff (COAS) that the current Nigerian Army is no longer the Nigerian
Army considered as a place for dumb heads, never- do-well in life or
dropouts. “That so much has changed under the watch of the COAS. “It is to enlighten the public  that what he envisages for the
Nigerian Army  is an Army where every soldier will be able to think and
fight and also fight and think. “Where every personnel will have that capacity to be able to think
critically, be very creative and then rationalise situation with or
without supervision and without any fuse,” he said. He said that the new recruits into the Nigerian Army would undergo
special forces training in order to ascertain their mental fitness and
endurance level. Akpan said that it was part of the efforts by  the  COAS to reform the Nigerian Army. “The essence of the tour  is sequel to the COAS directive as
contained in his strategic directive for 2020 where he directed that a
special forces’ concept should be integrated in all Nigerian Army
training. “And  that every Nigerian Army  personnel,  both serving and those we
hope to recruit into the system,  must undergo special forces training. “And we all know what special forces training stands for and the kind of training that they give,”he said. He also said that the COAS was keen on ensuring that everyone was given the opportunity to join the Nigerian Army. “We want to further  inform the public that the COAS is very keen
that every Nigerian is given the opportunity to enlist in the Nigerian
Army under his watch. “The interactive sessions across the states have been very revealing,
we interacted with cross sections of youth leaders from Lagos. “It was very revealing, we have taken note of all their concerns and
we intend to convey the message to the appropriate authority,” Akpan
said. He said that the essence of the special forces training was to also
ensure that every personnel could adapt to situations and functions. “The essence of the training is to ensure that every personnel both
serving and those we intend to recruit can adapt and function seamlessly
in any operating environment, be it the regular, hybrid or conventional
environment. “We are also aware that the training is highly rugged, highly
demanding, and it also demands men and women who are not only medically
fit but mentally robust to be able to undertake the training. “That is the main reason why the COAS in his very informed wisdom
directed that we tour the various states of the federation to update our
brothers and sisters willing to  enlisti into the Army, what to expect. He further said that the team had taken the campaign to the South
East, South South and presently in Lagos State which is under the
South-West “We started from the South-East states; from Enugu , we covered Imo
State, Ebonyi, Abia. We went for the second leg: the South-South which
covers Akwa-Ibom, Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa. “And we are commencing the South-West phase of the sensitisation campaign by starting  in   Lagos State,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that youth leaders in the State were present at the sensitisation campaign. The Lagos State Governor, represented by Mrs Kemi Durotimi-Etti, the
Permanent Secretary in the Cabinet Office said there would not be a
strong nation without its military. She said that the Nigerian Army was always bringing out creative ways
to take the force to the next level in order to better serve  the
nation’s citizens. She also commended the Nigerian Army for its selfless service to ensuring that the country was safe. The team also visited the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Nigeria Army ,Maj.- Gen. Olubunmi Irefin. The GOC, represented by Brig.- Gen. N.J, Edet, the Chief of Staff, 
said that the division looked forward on leveraging on the experience
and information gotten to conduct any recruitment. He said that he believed that with such campaign, the doubts of the
public would be cleared and also help them know what to expect when
applying for job openings in the Nigerian Army. He also said that he envisaged a Nigeria Army that would be better,
that would be able to  stand the challenges of time with such an 
initiative. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA