The Zone RS2 Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC)
comprising Ogun and Lagos States, has urged motorists to ensure proper
spacing in all categories of their vehicles. The Zonal Commanding Officer, Mr Samuel Obayemi, said that corps
would focus on overloading during this period of lockdown in both
states. He, in a statement issued  in Lagos on Tuesday, added that the
command’s officers were already enforcing the directive on restriction
of movements to curb  the spread of COVID-19. Obayemi appealed to  the  residents in the zone to comply with the
government’s directive on social distancing policy by  staying at home
during  this period in order to curtail the spread of the virus in the
country. According to him, the lockdown and travel restrictions are meant to slow down the spread of the pandemic. “Operatives of the corps alongside other security agencies are out to enforce the directive on restriction of movements. ” The focus of  the zone  during this period will be on overloading , especially,  overloading commuters in vehicles. “This contravenes the idea of social distancing policy and negates
whatever progress the government will achieve from the stay-at-home
order. “I encourage commuters to ensure they are properly spaced in their sitting arrangements in any vehicle,” he said. Obayemi said that the FRSC rescue teams would be deployed in
strategic locations and also be on standby to handle emergency
situations. He  said that the FRSC had shutdown the Driver’s Licence Capture
Centres (DLCs) to reduce the risk of further spread of COVID-19. He  advised applicants who wished to renew their driving licences to make use of the bypass option. The FRSC boss said the bypass would be available only to those seeking to renew their expired  licences. “The bypass option avails already licensed drivers the opportunity to
renew their expired licences  from the comfort of their homes without
physical appearing in any of the FRSC Driver’s Licence centres in the
country for capturing. “Motorists are, by this medium, encouraged to take advantage of the
online platform in order to adhere to the current global best practice
of staying at home and social distancing,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that to initiate the bypass
option, the applicant is directed to www.nigeriadriverslicense.org. Other steps are: click on DL application, select the option Renewal
of DL, input your DL number which is on the top left corner of your
existing licence, enter your date of birth and then submit. NAN also reports that the site will take the applicant to a page that
has his existing details and such will be required to input state,
local government and the closest capture centre to him or her. After inputting the information, the applicant will be redirected to a
payment page where he or she can make use of visa or master cards to
make payment online. NAN also reports that after confirmation of payment, the applicant
can then print the form to be taken to  an earlier indicated capture
centre for pick up a permanent licence when it is ready for collection. The applicant will get a confirmation text message informing him or her when it is ready. NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.