The Lagos State Film and Video Censors Board on Friday said that all
Audio and Visual contents produced and sold within Lagos would
henceforth attract payment of five per cent levy on each item. Mr Bamidele Balogun, Secretary-General of the board told the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the move became necessary to
assist the state in policy formulation. Balogun said that the revenue generated would go a long way in
planning and funding of the sector, while practitioners were expected to
comply with the authorised agent saddled with the task. “The five per cent is a way of getting practitioners in the
entertainment industry committed to the board who in return, create an
enabling environment for them to operate in Lagos. “All practitioners involved in production, sales, distributions,
marketing, exhibition, streaming, downloading, shearing of audio and
visual products are required to comply with the development spelt out. “We have an authorised vendor/agent that sees to the registration,
collection of levies, baseline data of practitioners and contents in the
entertainment industry in Lagos,” he said He also called on practitioners in the sector who were operating in
Lagos State and were yet to register their products to do so as part of
obligation and loyalty to the board. “This directive was concluded since March 1 but following ongoing
health challenge of Covid-19, sensitisation was yet to go into full
force. ” Though some practitioners have started complying, several others
who have not heard still have opportunity to do so through this medium,”
he added. Meanwhile, Balogun stated that the said five per cent levy would not
affect audios, videos or contents that projected information on trending
Covid-19. “The current check or levy would not affect an content that projected
vital information on Covid-19 because it is a social service to the
nation and society at large,” he told NAN. He urged Lagosians to be mindful of the pandemic, saying, “COVID-19
is real and spreading”,  and they must abide by all levels of government
directives. He further advised them to strictly comply to regular washing of
hands, use of sanitisers, keeping away from gathering of more than 20
people. He also said anyone not feeling well should visit the hospital for test if they felt the symptoms of Coronavirus. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.