(NAN) Lagos State Health Commissioner, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has  stressed the need for health workers to collaborate, protect themselves,  instill confidence among the populace and ensure that health facilities  did not stop operations. Abayomi said this during a Health Summit organised by the Association
of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN) on
Thursday in Lagos. The summit was with the theme: ‘’Repositioning Healthcare Delivery in
Lagos State: A Synergy Between Government and Private Sector.” Abayomi noted that 70 per cent of healthcare delivery in Lagos was by
private medical practitioners, saying that collaboration of the private
and public medical personnel was needed to defeat COVID-19 just like
Ebola Virus. According to him, with the declaration of COVID-19 as a global
pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO), health workers were
frontline combatants. “WHO has declared COVID-19 a global pandemic, that means there is an
outbreak raging the entire earth, affecting all communities, disrupting
lives and threatening our livelihoods, with the world almost on the
verge of global economic collapse. “As combatants in this outbreak, which is like a war, it is important
for health workers to protect themselves, instill confidence and ensure
that our facilities do not shut down. “We know that if there is chaos in a community, and you see the policemen running away, then you know there is a problem. “If in this situation, doctors and nurses are running away, there will be fear, that’s not a situation we want to see,” he said. According to him, this is the period for health workers to recall that they swore to save and protect lives. The commissioner said the chances were high that Nigeria might
receive another index case of COVID-19, stressing that government was
intensifying its surveillance efforts at all points of entry. According to him, recent data from Lagos Bureau of Statistics shows
that slum communities in Lagos has increased from 68 to 650 slums, with
about 3,000 people relocating to the state from different parts of the
country daily. He noted that the situation presented a challenge to the government,
adding that congestion would drive rapid transmission of an outbreak if
allowed at the community level. Abayomi stressed that government’s strategy was to cast a tight net
on any case that came into the country, saying that AGPMPN played  an
important role in assisting government in its containment efforts. According to him, the association is represented at the Emergency
Operations Centre (EOC) to keep them abreast with strategies and
brainstorm on moves to take in containing the virus. He urged health workers to get equipped, exercise high level of
suspicion with patients and ensure proper history was taken from
patients. The commissioner said that government was working on reviewing the
Access to Finance plan to enable private facilities access low interest
loans, stressing that government appreciated  the vital role played by
health workers in the society. Also, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Wife of Lagos State Governor, said the
outbreak of COVID-19 and Lassa fever had made it pertinent for private
medical practitioners to collaborate with government. Sanwo-Olu represented by Dr Folasade Fadare, Medical Director,
Ibeju-Lekki General Hospital, said the partnership would reduce diseases
burden and boost the state’s health indices. Commenting, Prof. Akin Osibogun, Public Health and Epidemiology
Specialist, stressed the need for inter-sectoral collaboration and
health in all policies approach to enhance health status. Osibogun called for urgent attention on implementation of National
Health Act, and enactment of the National Hospitals Commission. He stressed the need for  cost effective approach with emphasis on
prevention through routine immunisations, health education, promotion of
healthy lifestyle and health impact of other policies and actions. The AGPMPN Chairman, Dr Tunji Akintade, said that stakeholders
convened the summit out of a strong desire to enhance healthcare
delivery in the country. Akintade said that with the collaboration of the private and public
medical personnel, COVID-19 just like Ebola Virus could be defeated in
the country. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA