Nigerians in  the Diaspora (NiDO) have been advised to change their 
negative perception about their country and return home to take  the
huge responsibility of building the Nigeria of their dream. Gov Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, former Gov. Peter Obi of Anambra,
former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim and Chairman of Nigerians in
Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mrs  Abike dabiri-Erew among others  threw
the challenge at  in Tampa, Florida, U.S.A. President of Nigerian-American Business Forum, (NABF), Mr Kenneth
Shobola, in a statement on Wednesday, quoted them as giving the advice
at the third Annual Conference of the NABF in Tampa, Florida. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the NABF is a group of
accomplished and influential Nigerian professionals based in the U.S. He quoted the speakers as underscoring the need for the Nigerians
living abroad to come back home and invest to enhance the growth and
economic development of the nation. They said that every country was built by some people but usually the diaspora Speaking, Gov. Makinde said his administration had changed the
governance landscape in Oyo State and presented investment opportunities
in agriculture, tourism, housing, education. According to him, NiDO has major role to play if Nigeria must realise
its development potential with many opportunities, especially in Oyo
State. He said, “We are inviting investors, we offer you land at unbeatable
rates and if you get a better offer for the same value anywhere in
Nigeria, we will best it. “We are proud of our local and foreign investors, and we are
determined to make life better for them, so we want you to be part of
this novel investment.” Makinde expressed concern on insecurity to be major challenge facing
investments in Nigeria and explained that his administration had put
measures on ground to tackle them, through establishment of “Amotekun”
security outfit. Speaking in the same vein, former Gov. Peter Obi of Anambra, urged
Nigerians in the United States to translate their skills into developing
Nigeria like the Jews, Indians and Chinese did. “There are opportunities in Nigeria when it comes to investment, which is not anywhere in the world. “Channel your investments back into the country; be part of the
change at home, we have no other country to call ours except Nigeria. “You can make money in Nigeria but the system and processes must be
right; come and run your business and achieve that when the right
environment is created,” Obi said. Also speaking, a former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim, urged
participants at the event to take bold steps and invest in their
fatherland, to achieve targets. “If you do not come back to build Nigeria, it will wait for your
children, America was built so Nigeria must be built,” Anyim warned. Anyim, also former Secretary to the Government of the Federation,
urged the diaspora investment group to partner with the governments to
formulate and implement policies that attract and protect their
investments. For her part, Dabiri-Erewa said that nobody could ignore the
Nigerians in the diaspora because they are often considered best
anywhere they are found worldwide. The Chairman of NIDCOM said: “We have the best doctors in the world but just look at the state of our hospitals; it is a shame. “So no more excuses, you have the best engineers and you now have the
Diaspora Commission. Let’s join hands to build the Nigeria of our
dream.” Also, Dr. Leo Egbunjobi, Chairman of AmNi Bank, said the bank had
been positioned to leverage on huge liquidity NiDO move to Nigeria, to
tackle inadequate funding often faced by diasporans. The Chairman of NABF, Dr. Afolabi Andu, remarked that Nigerians in
the diaspora represented the largest contributors to the country’s
economy with an annual average investment of 25 billion dollars. He said that the event marked re-affirmation of the group’s
commitment to nation-building and the desire to see Nigeria take its
rightful position among preferred global investment destination. “We will rise to take charge of our common destiny through
collaborative efforts of likeminded patriots, our collective will though
tested by insecurity in recent years can outlast the present
challenges. “We know America built New York through the power of vision, United
Arab Emirate emerged from plague of desert, applying same principle
Nigeria will emerge from today’s shadows to be reckoned globally.” Ms Jane Castor, Mayor of the City of Tampa, Florida, in her remarks
said that there should be strategic plan to resuscitate Nigerian
economy. Castor said, “It is not good for just a few people to prosper in a
country, those who are prosperous should be able to lift others up.”
(NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.