The Lagos State Government has advised local government chairmen to
take the advocacy for prevention of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
to the grassroots. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu gave the advice during an advocacy meeting
with all 57 council chairmen, councils’ community health officers,
representatives of Community Development Associations (CDAs) and
Community Development Councils (CDCs), held at State House, Alausa on
Monday. Sanwo-Olu said that the aim of the meeting with the local government
stakeholders was to engage them in propagating accurate information on
the virus at the grassroots. He said that the meeting was also to cascade communication on ways to prevent human-to-human transmission. ”We have called for this meeting as part of proactive measures we are
taking to prevent the spread of coronavirus to our local communities.
It is no more news that we are managing a case in Lagos but the
situation does not call for panic. ”One of the lessons we learnt during the outbreak of Ebola virus six
years ago is that, the grassroots was adequately sensitised and
prepared. ”We are bringing the lesson back in this period when we are dealing
with another highly contagious virus. We don’t want to record any loss
of life to this virus. ”My administration places premium value on human life, which is the
reason we have upgraded facilities at our bio-security centre and
Infectious Disease Hospital to stop the spread of the virus. ”We believe we will achieve better results in this effort if people
at the grassroots are properly sensitised on how to protect their
communities from the virus and other contagious diseases,” he said. According to him, government is doing its best to stop coronavirus
but government cannot do it alone, as it requires collective
responsibility of everybody living in Lagos to stop the virus. ”Therefore, what we are doing today is to cascade information on
coronavirus down to people in our various communities and towns,” the
governor said. Sanwo-Olu said that government wanted every resident to have
first-hand information on the virus and ways to report any possible case
to the authorities. The governor urged the stakeholders not to be advocates of misinformation and fake news that may send panic to their neighbours. He said that the state government would maintain open line of
communication with the public on the progress being made in containing
the virus. Sanwo-Olu urged members of the public to disregard any piece of information that did not come from official source. According to him, two more foreign nationals suspected to be carrying
the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) from a high-risk country in Asia have
tested negative in Lagos State. He said that series of medical examination at the State’s
bio-security facility conducted on the two patients, who were brought
from Ogun State, did not show any sign of COVID-19 infection. The governor said that the condition of the Italian national tested positive to the virus last Friday was improving. Speaking with newsmen on the case being managed, the Commissioner for
Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said that the government had intensified
its search for all persons that had interaction with the isolated
patient. Abayomi said that the Incident Command Centre was still investigating
possible transmission of the virus, as the centre had identified all
the local contacts that interacted with the patient, including some
passengers in the aircraft and six other persons who came in contact
with the carrier at the airport. ”There were 159 passengers in the aircraft and six people that came in contact with him at the airport. “There are 25 people who came in contact with him at the factory; there were two drivers and an ambulance driver. ”We have quarantined those identified so far at our medical
facilities and some of them at home. We are calling them twice a day to
check if they are okay. If they develop symptoms, we will bring them to
our bio-security facility for test. ”We have identified all of these people except some of the people on
the aircraft who have either gone back to Europe and other states. Some
of them gave us false information on the phone. ”We are still trying to find the remaining passengers on that
aircraft every day. Our contact list is over 100 persons and this number
is increasing every day,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA