The Niger Government has distributed 8,220 bags of grains worth N140  million across the 274 wards in the state to cushion the effect of the  lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus . Alhaji Ahmed Matane, Secretary to the State Government and Chairman
of Task Force on COVID19, disclosed this in an interview with the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna on Tuesday. He explained that government earmarked N140 million for grains, and
N80 million for the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), to
provide steady power supply during the lockdown. He also said that about N200 million was also set aside for the
rehabilitation of water works pipelines for adequate supply throughout
the lockdown, adding that part of it would be used to obtain medical
supplies to some facilities. Matane added that each ward was allocated 10 bags of rice, maize and millet for distribution to the needy. He said that the distribution process had been smooth except a report
received from Katcha Local Government that a councilor of a ward
disappeared with 30 bags of grains allocated to his ward, adding that
efforts were ongoing for his arrest. Meanwhile, Mr Emmanuel Umar, Commissioner for Youth and Sports
Development, who received the grains on behalf of Shiroro Local
Government, said the food items had been distributed to indigent and the
needy across 11 wards of the council. He explained that a committee was set up at ward level, consisting of
councilor of each ward, youth and women leaders in the wards and
religious leaders, to oversee the distribution process. Umar said that it was unfortunate that while the distribution was
ongoing, people were making mockery of the palliative given to them,
saying that it was not enough to sustain them throughout the lockdown. Also, Alhaji Suleiman Chukwuba, Chairman of Shiroro, confirmed that
grains such as rice, maize and millet had been distributed across the
wards, adding that no record of diversion was reported during the
distribution. Similarly, Mr Abubakar Gomna, Chairman of Bosso Local Government
said, ” the palliative is not for people who have enough and those who
can afford them, they are for people like widows, orphans and the needy,
” he said. Gomna said that the council also purchased 150 bags of rice that was
distributed across the 10 wards to complement government’s efforts. NAN report that Niger Government received N28.5 million donation from
the United Bank for Africa (UBA) to support the fight against the
COVID-19. It also received donations of food items and medical supplies from
Dantata/Sawoe,  El-Amin Foundation and Mainstream Energy Limited. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA