Nasarawa state has recorded its first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Governor Abdullahi Sule confirmed the development while briefing newsmen in Lafia on Tuesday. Sule said the patient is a 25-year-old lady who recently travelled from Kano state to Kokona local government area of the state. The governor said samples were recently taken from five person for
testing at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) designated
laboratory, the results came back on Monday, April 27, with four coming
out negative, while one was positive. “Four out of the five, including the lady that was said to have ran
away from Abuja and isolated in Akwanga, their results came out
yesterday and were negative. “However, we are not that lucky with the fifth case. It is sad for me
to announce that Nasarawa State has its first case of COVID-19,” he
said. Sule added that the lady has been evacuated from Kokona to an
Isolation Centre in Lafia where there are better facilities to manage
her case. He explained the that family members of the patient have been quarantined and would be tested to ascertain their status. He, however, decried the attitude of people towards health personnel working to contain the virus. The governor recalled that efforts by health personnel to get sample
of the confirmed case was initially resisted by family member, who hid
the lady. “I want to use this opportunity to encourage our people, especially
the traders that continue to travel to some of these high risk places
like Lagos and Kano to desist as they could be doing more harm to their
family than even the state. “So I encourage our people to bear with the government against all
these travels at this moment especially to areas of high risk,” he said. He also encouraged residents to quickly embrace testing if they
noticed any symptoms, adding that “COVID-19 is not a death sentence.” The governor, therefore, urged the people of the state to continue to
adhere to all safety directives, especially physical distancing and
maintaining personal hygiene. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.