The month of Ramadan (is that) in which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for mankind and clear proofs for the guidance and the criterion (between right and wrong). So whoever of you sights (the crescent on the first night of) the month (of Ramadan i.e. present at his home), he must observe fasting that month… (Q. Al-Baqarah 2:185) The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), under the leadership of its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alh. Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, CFR, mni, felicitates with the entire Muslim Ummah on the auspicious occasion of the forthcoming Ramadan, 1441 A.H. The Council prays that Allah spare our lives to this and many more Ramadans on the surface of the earth and give us the ability to carry out good deeds as much as possible because of the multiplicity of its virtues and the blessings of Allah in the Month. In the same vein, the Council enjoins all Muslims to be prayerful unto Allah, especially in the Month (Ramadan), to help our Nation and the world in general and our leaders in particular to be able to overcome the current COVID-19 pandemic. Consequent upon the advice of the National Moon Sighting Committee (NMSC), the President-General enjoins the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to search for the crescent of Ramadan 1441 AH immediately after sunset on Thursday, April 23, 2020, which is equivalent to 29th Sha’aban 1441 AH. If the crescent is sighted by Muslims of impeccable character on the said evening, then His Eminence would declare Friday, April 24, 2020 as the first day of Ramadan 1441 AH. If, however, the crescent is not sighted that day, then, Saturday, April 25, 2020 automatically becomes the first of Ramadan, 1441 AH.  At the same time, His Eminence also directs the Muslim Ummah to practice social distancing when looking out for the crescent and specifically advices that people should look for the crescent at their residences without going out in groups. The Council hereby enjoins the Muslims all over the Country to be on the lookout for the announcement of His Eminence, the President-General of NSCIA, on the commencement of the 1441 AH Ramadan fast. In addition to the established and traditional Islamic leaders in each locality, members of the (NMSC) who can be contacted to report credible positive sighting of the Ramadan crescent are as follows: (view list here: https://nscia.com.ng/index.php/news-room/189-felicitation-and-moonsighting-for-ramadan-1441-a-h  ) We wish all Nigerian Muslims and their counterparts all over the world happy Ramadan in advance. Allahuma Baligna Ramadan! Amin Signed Salisu Shehu Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.