The Nigerian Air Force Officers Wives Association (NAFOWA), Logistics
Command, Ikeja on Monday reached out to the aged, women and  the less
privileged in Mushin/Idi-Araba community of  Lagos State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the association
distributed 10kg bag each  of rice, 5kg bag each of beans, 5kg bag each
of semolina, a carton each of noodles, vegetable oil, tomato puree, salt
and maggi  as palliatives to 200 families from the community. The association said that it was  giving out the palliatives to mark  56 years of establishing the Nigerian Air Force. NAN reports that NAF was established on April 18,1964. Mrs Abies Oghomwen, who represented Mrs Nanfe Alao, the Chairperson,
NAFOWA, Logistics Command, Ikeja said that the association picked
Mushin/Idi-Araba community  because of the large number of vulnerable
people living  there. She said, “As part of the landmark celebration; which, unfortunately,
coincided with the present  efforts at combating Coronavirus, aka COVID
-19 pandemic, our National President, Hajia Hafsat Sadique Abubakar,
decided to reach  out to some host communities to alleviate the
sufferings they may be facing during this lockdown.” Oghomwen said the distribution of the gifts at the Idi-Araba High
School  was in line  with the association’s motto of: Service to
Humanity. She also urged the community to abide by the Federal Government’s
order of social distancing and washing of hands with soap and running
water  as well as rubbing their hands with alcohol-based sanitisers
during the period. “We have faith that this pandemic will soon end, and as such let’s
believe that  in the good days ahead  that we will hug and shake hands
with friends again. “Until then, we appeal to you all to adhere to the Federal
Government’s order of social distancing, constant washing of hands and
to stay at home to avoid contracting the virus. “And if we must go out, we must wear face masks and gloves,” she said. Also, Mrs Adenike Keenan, the Secretary, NAFOWA, Logistics Command,
said that the leadership under Hajia Hafsat Sadique Abubakar believed in
giving out something that could sustain a family for up to two or three
weeks. “The association is happy to make these categories of people smile and nothing beats such joy, ” she said. Alhaji Idris Haruna, the Seriki Hausawa of Idi-Araba/Mushin Local
Government Area, thanked NAFOWA for reaching out to his community,
especially, during this pandemic period. “We thank NAFOWA very much for this gesture. What you brought to our  community will go a long way in reducing hunger during this period,” he  said. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.