Lagos, April 10, 2020 (NAN) Some clerics in Lagos on Friday urged
Christians to make sacrifices, show love and be prepared to place the
country above personal interests as they celebrate the death and
resurrection of  Jesus Christ. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigerians (NAN),  Pastor Daniel
Ajayi of the Redeemed Christian Church of God urged Christians to imbibe
the culture of sacrifice as demonstrated by Jesus Christ on Good
Friday. “As Christians, we must be prepared to make sacrifices for the growth
of the nation;  Christ laid down His life on the Cross for us,” he
said. According to him, obeying government directives to contain the spread
of  coronavirus confronting the world is part of the sacrifices to
make. “As we celebrate Easter, let us not  flout any government directive, let us be law-abiding.” Ajayi noted that Jesus Christ suffered  on the Cross of Calvary but His resurrection brought hope. “Let us put our hope in God in order to overcome the  various challenges especially  COVID-19 troubling the world.” He urged Christians not to engage in negative activities in an effort to celebrate Easter at all costs. In the same vein, the Pastor Peter Ibidapo of Christ Apostolic Church
advised Christians to show love, saying that Jesus Christ loves the
world and died for humanity. “This year’s Easter period may be a tough time for some Nigerians due
to the lockdown directives, but with the little you have, try and put
smiles on the faces of the poor and vulnerable in the society,” he
urged. Ibidapo called on those  in positions of authority to give priority attention to the welfare of the citizens. “Our politicians should be more responsive to the yearning of the people as there are many challenges in the land.” He prayed that Nigeria would overcome  economic hardship, insecurity,
coronavirus  pandemic and other challenges,  as Jesus  Christ overcame
death. Another clergyman, Pastor James Paul of Assemblies of God Church,
said  that Easter was a period of selfless sacrifices and love as
demostrated by Jesus Christ. He admonished Christians to continue to pray to God to proffer solutions to the nation’s challenges. “As God raised Christ from death so will He raise us from all trials, temptations and difficulties, ” he prayed. Paul called on politicians to bury their differences and tackle national issues with the urgency they deserved. He urged both leaders and followers to be prepared to make sacrifices for the growth of Nigeria. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA