Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has signed an Executive  Order to enforce the restriction of movement order to contain the spread  of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. This is contained in a statement issued by Mr Humwashi Wonosikou, the Press Secretary to the governor, on Wednesday in Yola. The Adamawa state government had earlier imposed a 14-day lockdown of the state with  effect from Tuesday midnight (March 31). Fintiri said the law was aimed at giving legal teeth to the lockdown and other measures taken to contain the deadly disease. “The restriction order, codenamed ‘Health Protection  (Coronavirus) Restriction Adamawa State Regulations 2020 Order’, is with  effect  from midnight of Tuesday, 31st March 2020,” he said. The governor said the restriction order forbade any person from going
out without genuine reason such as basic necessities that included
food, water and drugs. Others, he said, included seeking medical assistance, providing care
and assistance to a vulnerable person, donating blood or for the purpose
of work, which were all classified as essential services. “Therefore, the list of reasonable excuses set out in the restriction order is non-exhaustive. “Government expects citizens to exercise caution when considering any
undertaking outside those exceptions specifically allowed, as they may
have to justify that to the police or other law enforcement agencies and
the courts. “Under the regulation, the police or law enforcement officers may use
reasonable force if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that a
person is, or may be infected or contaminated with the Coronavirus and
there is a risk that the person may infect others. “The main purpose of the order is for protection of citizens and the
furtherance of public safety which is the fulcrum of any responsible
government. “It is an offence under the restriction order for a person to provide  false or misleading information, or to obstruct any person lawfully  enforcing its provisions, without reasonable excuse,” he said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.