The Lagos State Government, on Sunday discharged five more COVID-19 patients. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, said in a statement on the
Update on COVID-19, that those discharged are two males and three
females including a 10-year old girl. He said the five patients tested negative twice consecutively to
COVID-19 and had been discharged to reunite with their families. Sanwo-Olu, who is the COVID-19 Incident Commander of the state,  said
that with the five, a total of 29 patients had fully recovered and
discharged from the facility at Yaba. ”It is however sad that the state has recorded another death,
bringing to two the total number of deaths from COVID-19 in Lagos state. ”Although, there is a strong indication that the state is winning the
battle against the disease which is ravaging several countries across
the world,  we need to remain steadfast and aggressive to curtail the
spread. ”I need to reiterate that the result of tests conducted by our health
workers on the recovered patients are  confirmation that they pose no
threat to the community. ”I will like to use this opportunity to advise Lagosians against
stigmatising the discharged patients as this act can bring feelings of
shame, hopelessness and despair. ”We need to do all we can to support them in whatever form to get over the memories as soon as possible,” he said. The governor thanked the frontline health workers who were taking
good care of the patients, members of the Lagos State Health family and
the Emergency Operation Centre for their kindness and flexibility in
managing the patients and checking the spread of the disease. He said that as the disease ravaged countries all over the world,
Lagos state would continue to do the needful in terms of responding to
emergencies in an effort to ensuring the health and wellbeing of the
people. According to him, the government will continue to do its best to make
sure that other patients at the facility receive the best of care and
attention, so that they can return home to join their families and the
community soonest. ”In order to contain the spread of the disease, I strongly advise you to continue observing Social Distancing. ”Let us remain indoors and shun the temptation to breach the
presidential restriction that has been placed on our state, so that the
gains recorded so far are not eroded. ”You should regularly and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and
clean, running water and where water is not readily available, an
alcohol-based hand sanitiser can be used. ”It has come to our notice that some of our youths still engage in sporting and related activities, this is very unfortunate. ”This act can  jeopardise our efforts and the laudable intention of  the lockdown. I therefore, advise you to adhere strictly to our  instructions so that together we can win the battle,” he said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.