The National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement
Agency (NESREA) has intensified sensitisation of relevant government and
private stakeholders to the need for proper disposal of COVID-19 waste. Mr Abubakar Aliyu, the agency’s Adamawa State Coordinator, told the
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Yola that the aim of the
sensitisation was to impact more knowledge. “It is for various organisations handling COVID-19 and it is on how to manage the waste, according to international standards.’’ He said the waste from a highly-contagious disease such as COVID-19,
if not properly handled, could pose a great health danger for humans,
animals and plants. “Medical waste generated from the treatment of highly-contagious
diseases such as COVID-19 can only be managed in accordance with
international best practices. “Such practices include segregation of hazardous wastes from those that are non-hazardous. “That means all materials, including Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE), used for the purpose of treatment of COVID-19 are considered an
infectious waste which needs high level of proper disposal,’’ Aliyu
said. He further stated that COVID-19 waste should be properly packaged for transport to treatment facilities. “Each containerised infectious waste must be securely closed and protected from human, animals and environment.’’ The NESREA official said the agency was doing all it could to contain
the environmental impacts of viral spread from the disposal of the
medical waste and contaminated articles. He cautioned all authorities handling and managing the COVID-19
treatment to adhere to regulations and involve waste management
professional bodies in waste disposal. Aliyu said the agency had met with officials from the state’s
COVID-19 Containment Committee, ministries of Health and Environment,
among others, for proper action.(NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.