The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tuesday urged countries to
apply caution in lifting COVID-19 lockdowns, warning of a resurgence of
infections if current restrictions were relaxed too soon. Takeshi Kasai, WHO’s Regional Director for the Western Pacific, told an online media briefing in Manila. Kasai said that lockdown measures have proven effective in slowing
and reducing transmission of the highly infectious disease while easing
the burden on the overstretched health system. “This is going to be a long battle. This is not the time to relax,” Kasai said in an online coronavirus media briefing. Instead, he stressed the need to be ready for “a new way of living
that strikes the right balance between the measures to keep the virus in
check and enable vital parts of the economy and society to function.” Kasai urged the peoples in the region to protect themselves, their
family and their community by physically distancing and frequently
cleaning hands. Others are covering coughs and sneeze as well as staying at home and away from others especially when sick. He also urged the private sector to adopt new ways of working such as
establishing staff to work from home where possible and other measures
to reduce the risk of infections in the workplace. “For the government this means preparing for the worst, having a
system that works in every corner of the country to detect and care for
people in case of large-scale community transmission,” he said. Already, Kasai said, COVID-19 had upended millions of peoples’ lives and had caused a major economic impact on the world. He said that the governments in the region were making “extremely
complex decisions about introducing or enhancing or easing or lifting
lockdowns and physical distancing measures. “As we move forward in these difficult times, our lives, our health
systems and approach to stopping transmission must continue to adapt and
evolve along with the epidemic.” According to him, until a vaccine is found, the process of adapting to the epidemic will have to become a new normal. “There is no one-size-fits-all approach to doing this but WHO
strongly urges that decisions on measures be guided by public health
principles, the lifting of lockdowns, and other measures that need to be
done gradually. “If restrictions are relaxed or lifted before the strong system is in
place to identify, isolate and care for this sick, and trace and
quarantine their contacts, this will likely lead to a resurgence of
diseases,” he warned. “As long as the new coronavirus is circulating no country is safe
from potentially overwhelming outbreaks,” Kasai added, stressing the
need to be vigilant and to work together to contain the viral disease. Kasai also welcomed efforts by countries with COVID-19 experience
like China to share witj other countries in the region, their best
practices on how to control the disease. “And I think it’s very important the countries which have the
experience to share those experiences with the countries that are really
trying to ramp up their effective response. “And I really wanted to continue to encourage and support that kind of things occur in these missions,” he said. (Xinhua/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.