(NAN) The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency  (NIMASA) said it would collaborate with the Nigerian Shippers’ Council  (NSC) to sustain shipping and the economy. This was contained in a statement issued in Lagos on Thursday by Mr Philip Kyanet, Head, Corporate Communications, NIMASA. According to the statement, the agreement was reached when the
Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Mr Hassan Bello
led some stakeholders, including heads of shipping companies to NIMASA’s
head office in Lagos. The Director-General of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, while receiving the
stakeholders said that the guidelines for vessels calling at the
Nigerian ports recently issued by the agency was to ensure shipping
activities continued in a way that would not allow the spread of
COVID-19. He said that while the Federal Government was concerned about the
lives of the citizens in the country, the economy must be sustained,
hence the need for collaboration with relevant agencies, like the
Shippers’ Council. While also acknowledging the fact that the coronavirus pandemic had
slowed down activities in the sector, he appealed for more understanding
as the global economy was going through a trying time, of which Nigeria
was not exempted. “We are in trying time and all hands must be on deck to sustain the Nigerian economy. “Let me assure all stakeholders and the shipping community that on
our part as a regulatory agency, we will continue to embrace
collaboration. “This is a phase and it will soon be over, because today’s pains are necessary for tomorrow’s gains,” Jamoh said. The director-general, further speaking on the guidelines, said that
it was issued based on consultations with the International Maritime
Organisation (IMO) and in line with best global practices. He added that the guidelines were still open to review as time goes on, all in the best interest of everybody involved. “The world is not prepared for the pandemic and that is why we are
trying to ease the pressure on our industry, while taking necessary
precautions to safeguard lives. “We will continue to review these guidelines where necessary to
ensure that shipping does not suffer, especially when it comes to
movement of medical facilities through the sea,” the director general
said. Also, Bello, corroborated the stance of the NIMASA director general
and appealed for more cooperation and collaboration from the shipping
companies and stakeholders in the sector. He gave the assurance that Federal Government agencies in the sector
would endeavour to work together and synergise to ensure ease of
information sharing through a single data window, as it would help the
sector to grow. “At this period, we must sustain our economy through shipping, though
it is a delicate balance, considering the havoc the pandemic has caused
the globe. “This is why we are working hand in hand to ensure ports activities
continue, while not being detrimental to human lives,” he said. Representatives of some shipping companies, who attended the meeting
appealed to the agency to consider voyages less than 14 days in the
marine notice review in order to avoid undue delay and port congestion. They also commended the proactive efforts of the agency in issuing the notice. The Managing Director, PIL Shipping, Jack Langrishe; Managing
Director, Ports & Terminal Multiservices Ltd., Ascanio Russo;
General Manager, ARKAS Line, Iain Lindsay; and the Executive Directors
of NIMASA were also present at the meeting. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA