The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammed Bello has approved the extension of
business hours for Markets in Abuja to operate from 8a.m. to 3p.m. on
Wednesdays and Saturdays. Bello in a statement issued on Friday in Abuja, explained that the
directive which takes effect from Saturday, April 25, was against the
earlier approved time of 10a.m. to 2p.m. The minister also directed the decongestion of the existing markets
through the establishment of Neighbourhood Selling Points in the various
Districts within the Federal Capital City by Abuja Markets Management
L.t. d. Bello, therefore, urged FCT residents to support the intent of the lockdown by patronising markets in their neighbourhoods. The minister ordered the law enforcement Agencies to clamp down on
residents who hide under the window of market days to flout Government
directives. Bello also urged Abuja Markets Management L.t.d to liaise with the
FCT Area Councils to ensure full implementation of all COVID-19 Pandemic
protocols with regards to the markets across all the nooks and crannies
of Abuja. He explained that the concept of Neighbourhood Selling Points was
aimed at taking pressure off the existing markets in the FCT through the
provision of an initial 40 units -adopting either public schools or
green areas where they exist- across the various districts in the city. ” This will further enhance the attainment of social distancing among
residents which is a key requirement for eventual winning of the battle
against the dreaded virus.” The Minister further directed relevant FCTA Secretariats, Departments
and Agencies to support Abuja markets management to actualise the
mandate with a view to.ensure quick set up of the selling point. Bello insisted that all users of markets in the FCT must use face mask and also observe social distancing. He mandated the Managing Director, Abuja markets management, Abubakar
Faruk to ensure that existing selling points for food items within the
markets are decentralised immediately to achieve social distancing. The minister, however, encouraged the markets managers to continue to  sensitise the markets users on other hand and respiratory hygiene. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.