Bank-Anthony Okoroafor, former President, Petroleum Technology
Association of Nigeria (PETAN), on Wednesday said government must focus
on fiscal policies to survive the impact of the global crash of oil
prices. Okoroafor said this in an Interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. According to him, the fiscal policies will be able to drive
investment and government must ensure strict measures to help the
nation’s economy that depends solely on oil revenue. Okoroafor said that various ways to strengthen the economy included
full de-regulation of the downstream oil sector, one year moratorium on
all bank loans repayments for businesses and interest rate cuts. He said also, fiscal policies to make investments very attractive in
Nigeria, making Local content a national agenda, single foreign exchange
rate and full privitisation of  the refineries and all assets consuming
government funds. The former PETAN president said that government should stop putting
money on non productive investments or sectors and begin massive
investment in healthcare, education and capacity building. “ This is not a good time for our economy. Our 2020 budget was based
on $57 dollars per barrel of crude oil and about 2.18 million barrels of
oil per day. “Our economy is in great danger with the Coronavirus causing
blockages in economic activity, the Russia/Saudi oil price war and the
weak oil demand from China. ”Also, with  our budget premised on 2.45 trillion deficit, our weak
and non existent infrastructure, our dwindling foreign reserves, and our
blatant refusal to diversify during boom times, we cannot even
implement the budget. “We cannot raise the required revenue from crude sales or taxes. The general economic landscape does not look good. “The general welfare of the masses will remain pathetic and depressing for a long time,’’ he said. Okoroafor said that Nigerian government had not demonstrated that Nigeria had ever reaped huge oil windfall. He said that Nigeria had gotten fair share of oil prices windfall as a major oil producer and the sixth in the world. “What strategic advantage did we get from the oil windfall? ”Why should Nigeria be struggling with oil price fluctuation every
now and then without an attempt to resolve it once and for all? “With all these suggestion, we can still turn around with bold and  strategic actions like using the opportunity of this Coronavirus to make  production changes in our economy,’’ he said. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.