Dr Matshidiso Moeti, World Health Organisation (WHO), Regional Director for Africa, has commended nurses and midwives for their  contributions to healthcare delivery and the fight against Coronavirus  (COVID-19). Moeti gave the commendation in a statement issued from the WHO
Regional Office for Africa in Brazzaville, Congo, on Monday, to mark the
World Health Day. The World Health Day is a global health awareness day celebrated
every April 7, under the sponsorship of the WHO, as well as other
related organisations. WHO  declared 2020 as the International Year of the Nurse and the
Midwife; and Tuesday has been set aside to celebrate the work of these
amazing group of caregivers. “This year, on world health day, as front-line health workers lead
the charge against the COVID-19 pandemic, at WHO, we want to appreciate
the life-saving roles of nurses and midwives. “This is a year-long celebration, as part of the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife. “Nurses are at the core of the primary health care approach, which is a cornerstone for attaining universal health coverage. “They make up at least half of the global health workforce. Midwives
and nurses are critical links between individuals, families, communities
and the health system. “They provide support along the continuum of care, from promotion, to
prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation, to end-of-life care,” Moeti
said. The WHO scribe said in the COVID-19 response, nurses were working
non-stop to provide quality care, share health information, implement
infection prevention and control, serve in intensive care units, and
ensure routine services continued to be delivered. “Midwives are continuing to support mothers to safely deliver their babies. “We must do more to recognise the contributions of nurses and
midwives in empowering patients and communities, facilitating
multidisciplinary teamwork, and providing holistic care,’’ she said. According to her, a survey from 39 African countries showed a slight
increase in the number of nurses and midwives from 1.02 per 1000 people
in 2005 to 1.06 in 2018. “This is still far below the number needed to achieve universal health coverage and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “In low- and lower-middle-income countries globally, the number of
nurses is not keeping pace with population growth,’’ she said. Moeti said certain actions should be taken to improve the situation and that those actions should be taken collectively. “To better understand the challenges and develop evidence-based
policies, health workforce data collection, analysis and use, needs to
improve. “Education and training should be quality assured and relevant to
evolving disease burdens in countries; as so far, around 30 countries in
the African Region have an accreditation body for training
institutions. “More investment is needed in retention and career development, and to ensure decent work conditions. “Nurse mobility and migration must be effectively and ethically
managed. Presently, over 80 per cent of the world’s nurses are in
countries that account for half the global population. “Regulation must ensure nurses and other health workers are
accountable for the health of populations,’’ the regional director said. She further noted that nursing leadership and governance was critical to nursing workforce strengthening. Moeti listed nursing leadership to include collaboration between
chief nurses and relevant ministries (such as education, immigration,
finance, labour) and the private sector to address the needs of nurses
and midwives. “In taking forward these actions, I’m pleased to join the WHO
Director-General and my WHO fellow regional directors in launching the
first ever State of the World’s Nursing Report 2020. “This report details the significant contribution that nurses make to
promoting health, keeping the world safe and serving the vulnerable. “This report is an excellent tool to shape policies and strategies based on evidence. “Even more so as we respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and every day, I
ask that we appreciate the valuable service of nurses and midwives in
improving health and well-being, and saving lives,’” she added. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.