The Federal  Government on Tuesday warned Nigerians against patronising uncertified  Coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine, yellow in colour, being hawked in Kano. The Minister of  Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed gave the warning at a media  briefing of the Presidential Task Force on the Control of Covid-19. “By the way, you must know that the vaccine being hawked in Kano which is called Covid-19 vaccine is yellow in colour.  “It is not certify by anybody, please do not patronise the hawkers,” he said. The minister who was giving update on public enlightenment and advocacy on covid-19 said a respected opinion poll, the NOI Polls, has shown that 99 per cent of Nigerians are aware of COVID-19   He disclosed that his  ministry and its agencies had ramped up their public enlightenment and  advocacy campaign to continue to reach Nigerians with information on how  they can protect themselves and avoid contracting the disease. “This is  necessary because, in the absence of vaccine or drugs, Non  Pharmaceutical Intervention (NPI) remains the most effective way to  contain the spread of the disease and protect Nigerians. “The campaign has, therefore, continued to focus on the need for the populace to adhere strictly to social distancing and mass gathering restrictions, wear face mask and ensure good personal hygiene. “The Ministry has now rolled out a new set of TVCs and radio jingles focusing on the NPI interventions. “The TVCs and the jingles, in English, Pidgin, Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba, have started playing on the NTA and the FRCN,” he said. Mohammed  said the ministry was in the process of rolling them out on state and  private radio and television stations across the country. He particularly  commended the federal government information dissemination agencies,   NTA, FRCN, NAN and VON for engaging in the public enlightenment and  advocacy campaign. “These  agencies have used their own resources to produce TVCs and jingles,  which they have continued to air and disseminate, in addition to  devoting a large chunk of their programmes and time to the campaign. “I am also happy to  announce that, contrary to the belief in certain quarters, the National  Orientation Agency (NOA), inspite of lacking adequate resources, has shown creativity in its bid to take the campaign to Nigerians. “The  agency has leveraged its relationship with NGOs and the private sector  to produce Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials  which are now being disseminated to Nigerians in English, Pidgin and  some of the major indigenous languages,” he said. Lai Mohammed  added that the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) had taken steps  to prevent misinformation via the broadcast stations by warning them to  adhere strictly to the professional ethics of balance and fairness in  reporting COVID-19. He said  the commission particular warned the stations against bringing on their  programmes ‘panellists’ with agenda to make reckless statements and insinuations. The minister reiterated that failure to adhere strictly to the provisions of the Broadcasting Code would attract sanctions, as stipulated by the Code.(NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.