Dr Matshidiso Moeti, Director for Africa, World Health Organisation
(WHO), on Saturday said that Africa was falling short of the 2020
milestone of 40 per cent reduction in cases and deaths. Moeti, who disclosed this in a statement to commemorate the 2020
World Malaria day, said that the continent needed to double its efforts
to achieve a 75% reduction by 2025. “On April 25, 2020, we commemorate the World Malaria Day to draw
attention to the devastating impact of this disease on families,
communities and societies. “As the world grapples with COVID-19, this is an opportunity to
highlight the importance of maintaining robust health systems and
continuing delivery of essential health services in times of crisis. The theme of the World Malaria Day 2020, “Zero Malaria Starts with
Me”, is a grassroots campaign, first launched in Senegal in 2014. It
aims to engage everyone from policy-makers to the private sector to
communities affected by malaria. “African countries have led a massive effort to control the disease and Algeria was certified malaria free in 2019,’’ she said. The WHO boss said: “However, there were still 213 million cases in
the WHO African Region in 2018, accounting for 93 per cent of cases
worldwide. “Every year over 400,000 people die of malaria, and 94 per cent of these deaths occur in the African region. “Children under five years are the most vulnerable group, accounting for 67 per cent of deaths. “This situation remains alarming and inequitable. Through the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), countries have committed to ending
the malaria epidemic by 2030. “The e-2020 Malaria Elimination Initiative was launched in 2017 to
halt rising cases, mainly in countries in sub-Saharan Africa, WHOs High
Burden to High Impact approach was launched in 2018. “A year ago, pilot testing of the world’s first malaria vaccine,
RTSS, started in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi. So far, 275,000 children have
received the vaccine,’’ Moeti said. The WHO director noted that the action was commendable, but Africa
was falling short on the 2020 milestone of a 40 per cent reduction in
cases and deaths. “We will need to double our efforts to achieve a 75 per cent
reduction by 2025. Greater political commitment, accelerated investment,
and more innovation in malaria prevention and control are urgently
required. “Together, we must recognise that as long as malaria exists, it
threatens the poorest and most vulnerable, and has the potential to
resurge in times of crisis, like the COVID-19 pandemic facing us now. “To build on the gains we have made, I urge countries to allocate
resources to work across sectors and to strengthen cross-border
collaboration to control malaria. “With the required financing, strong coordination, dedicated partners
and engaged communities, we can achieve a malaria-free Africa,’’ Moeti
said. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.