World Health Organization (WHO) has
called on the Nigerian Government not to forget about other diseases
amid the Novel Coronavirus(COVID-19) pandemic outbreak in the country. Dr Fiona Braka, the Officer in Charge,
(OIC) WHO Country Office, Nigeria said this while fielding questions
from Journalists at the Presidential task force on COVID-19 daily press
briefing against the backdrop of the commemoration of the World Malaria Day celebration. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports
that the theme of World Malaria Day 2020, “Zero Malaria Starts with Me”
is a grassroots campaign, first launched in Senegal in 2014. It aims at engaging everyone from policy-makers to the private sector to communities affected by malaria. The OIC said that the World Malaria Day
drew attention to the devastating impact of this disease on families,
communities and societies. “As the world grapples with COVID-19,
this is an opportunity to highlight the importance of maintaining robust
health systems and continuing delivery of essential health services in
times of crisis,” she said. She stated that African countries
including Nigeria have led a massive effort to control the disease and
Algeria was certified malaria free in 2019. Braka however, said that there were still
213 million cases in the WHO African Region in 2018, accounting for 93
percent of cases worldwide. She disclosed that every year over 400, 000 people die of malaria, and 94 percent of these deaths occur in the African Region. “Children under five years are the most vulnerable group, accounting for 67 percent of deaths. “This situation remains alarming and inequitable,” she noted. Braka said that through the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG), countries had committed to ending the malaria
epidemic by 2030. She stated that the E-2020 Malaria Elimination initiative was launched in 2017 and
to halt rising cases, mainly in countries in sub-Saharan Africa, WHO’s
High Burden to High Impact approach was launched in 2018. “A year ago, pilot testing of the world’s first malaria vaccine, RTS’S, started in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi. So far, 275 000 children have received the vaccine. “This action is commendable, but we are
falling short on the 2020 milestone of a 40 percent reduction in cases
and deaths, and will need to double our efforts to achieve a 75 percent
reduction by 2025, she stated. The OIC said that greater political
commitment, accelerated investment, and more innovation in malaria
prevention and control were urgently required in the country. “Together, we must recognize that as long
as malaria exists, it threatens the poorest and most vulnerable, and
has the potential to resurge in times of crisis like the COVID-19
pandemic facing us now, “she said. The OIC called on the government to
allocate resources, to work across sectors, and to strengthen
cross-border collaboration to control malaria in the country. She said that with the required
financing, strong coordination, dedicated partners and engaged
communities, Nigeria will be a malaria-free Nation. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.