The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has assured  the nation of its preparedness to support the manufacturing of essential  materials to combat COVID-19, adopting relevant international  standards. It said it would do so through the adoption of relevant  international Standards from the International Organisation for  Standardisation (ISO). SON Director-General, Mr Osita Aboloma, in statement on  Tuesday in Lagos, said the processes for the adoption of Standards would  continue unhindered in spite of the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19  globally. Aboloma disclosed that the SON had received free,  unlimited usage of the ISO web conferencing system (Zoom) for national  standards development work. “In view of the current situation of the COVID 19  pandemic and our role as the National Standards Body, the Standards  Development Directorate is working very hard to adopt  some  international standards relevant to the present worldwide COVID-19  situations. “These standards include standards for hand sanitizers, face mask ventilators among many others. “Please be assured that we shall adopt fast track approach as recently released by ISO. “With this offer, Nigeria as an eligible member will be  assigned a Zoom account for developing countries which we can share with  our Technical Committee (TC) members and experts, creating the  equivalent of a “virtual conference room” at the national level,” he  said. The SON DG said that with this, Nigeria’s TC meetings  could continue to a great extent, while its stakeholders and experts  kept safe, observing the bans on gatherings and travels. He called on TC members across the nation to expect  invitations from the secretariat for participation in the consideration  and adoption of several international Standards from ISO resources, to  support global efforts in dealing with the COVID-19 crisis. He listed some of the international standards compiled  by ISO to support global efforts in dealing with the COVID-19 crisis to  include ISO 374-5:2016 Protective gloves against dangerous chemicals and  micro-organisms. “We also have ISO 10651-3:1997 Lung ventilators for  medical use, ISO 10651-5:2006 Lung ventilators for medical use –  Particular requirements for basic safety and essential performance. “In addition, ISO 13688:2013 Protective clothing, ISO  22301:2019 Security and resilience – Business continuity management  systems – Requirements, ISO 17510:2015 Medical devices – Sleep apnoea  breathing therapy amongst others,” he said. Aboloma also stated that the TC was considering the  adoption of a French National Standard “AFNOR SPEC S76-001 Barrier Masks  – to provide necessary quality guidance for mass production of face  masks in the country especially by Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  (MSMEs). He commended the past efforts of all members of various  National Technical and Mirror Committees in ensuring development,  adoption, adaption and review of market-driven Standards for use in  Nigeria. According to him, their patriotic efforts have  helped  in great measure to promote the competitiveness of Made in Nigeria  products locally and for export, safety of consumers and steady growth  of the nation’s economy. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA