The fight to end COVID-19 in Nigeria received a boost through the ‘Get Involved Initiative’ of Aisha Buhari Foundation (ABF) as various items were distributed to three State-Level COVID-19 Response Committees. They are FCT, Bauchi and Gombe states. The distribution took place on Friday 24th April, 2019. Representative of the First Lady at the event, Dr. Hajo Sani, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration and Women Affairs, said Mrs. Buhari has shown deep concern over the spread of the dreaded corona virus disease across Nigeria and has activated her Get Involved Initiative in order to gather donations to support the fight. She expressed appreciation to those who donated, saying the nation will benefit from their donations. Mrs. Buhari called on Nigerians to stay safe and practice social distancing in order to defeat the Covid-19 Pandemic. She called on the benefitting states to put the items to good use. Speaking on the items distributed, Dr. Kamal Abdurrahman Mohammed, National Coordinator Aisha Buhari Foundation and Future Assured Programme, said they included cartons of assorted hand sanitizers, pharmaceutical drugs, personal protection equipment including disposable gowns, overalls, disposable and N95 surgical masks, gloves, protective goggles, regular and ICU beds with beddings, and automatic dispensers. Director of Special Duties, FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat, and member, FCT Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19, Dr. Mathew Ashikeni represented the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory at the event. He expressed appreciation for the donated items which he said will go a long way in supporting the fight against COVID-19. He promised that the items will be put to judicious use and called on well-to-do Nigerians to support the effort of government in controlling the spread of the disease. The Get Involved Initiative was one of the many platforms initiated by the First Lady to generate donations from individuals and corporate organizations to address pervasive health problems and was last activated to address the issue of nutrition among Nigeria’s IDPs. Aliyu Abdullahi Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.