First Lady of Nigeria, Dr. Mrs. Aisha  Buhari has distributed food items to vulnerable groups in Gombe State  through her pet-project Future Assured as part of a series of  humanitarian activities that the First Lady embarked upon since November  2019, focusing on hospitals, charity organisations and the poor . The  first lady’s delegation was on a mercy mission to Gombe state from 3rd  to 4th January, 2020.Mrs. Buhari, in her goodwill message  delivered by Aliyu Abdullahi, Special Assistant to the President on  Media & Publicity, (Office of the First Lady) said the visit was to  show love to the most vulnerable in our communities and to remind the  people of Gombe State that the mother of the nation has not forgotten  them and infact identifies with them in their time of need.Mr.  Abdullahi also informed the beneficiaries that the First Lady remembers  their demonstration of love, support and solidarity to her husband,  President Muhammadu Buhari by the people of Gombe State.First  Lady of Gombe state, Her Excellency, Hajiya Asmau Muhammadu Inuwa Yahya,  who received the team and flagged off the ceremony was overwhelmed with  the kind gesture of the Nigerian First Lady and for choosing Gombe  State as one of the beneficiary states for this mercy outreach mission.  She was accompanied by Wife of the Deputy Governor, the Commissioner for  Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Naomi Joel Awak, and other  Gombe State officials.Hajiya Asmau Muhammadu Inuwa Yahya in her  remarks stated that the human spirited initiatives being pursued by Mrs.  Buhari through her pet project, Future Assured are in tune with Gombe  State Administration’s programmes targeting the empowerment of women,  youth, and other vulnerable groups. She also pleaded with the leadership  and representatives of all beneficiary groups to ensure fair  distribution process with a view to reaching out to the targeted  beneficiaries.The Flagging off the distribution of bags of 50kg  rice, Cartons of Spaghetti, and Gallons of Vegetable Oil  was held at  the Pantami Stadium in the city of Gombe before the First Lady’s  delegaton extended its visit to the Gombe Orphanage and subsequently to  ancient town of Tula where one of the oldest Nigerian Correctional  Facility is located, all benefitted from the food items.The  delegation of the First Lady was taken round these locations by the wife  of the Governor, Hajia Asmau Muhammadu Inuwa Yahya and her team.At  the Gombe Orphanage, the delegation was received by the Head of the  Orphanage, Mallam Mohammed Adamu who conducted the team round the  orphanage for the distribution. Mallam Adamu and the orphans expressed  their gratitude to the Mrs. Buhari for remembering them.At the  ancient Tula Correctional facility in Kaltungo Local Government Area,  the Tula Women Association and the Chief Warden received the delegation  and also conducted the delegation round the facility where another  goodwill message from First Lady was delivered for the inmates, Mrs.  Buhari admonished them to use the experience of rehabilitation and  become good citizens in order for them to be reintergrated into the  society and contribute their quota to the development of the nation. The  Chief Warden of the Tula Correctional Facility thanked the Nigerian  First Lady for coming to their rescue, while the Tula Women Association  were also full of appreciation to the First Lady, the Tula Women Leader  recalled that this is the first time in history that they received any  delegation of Nigerian First Lady in their community and remarked that  they will remember the visit as historic moment in their community.Among  the groups that benefitted from the First Lady’s generosity included  FOMWAN, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) women, Widows Group,  Zaurawa Group, various youth groups, three Orphanage Homes, four  Correctional Facilities, People living with disabilities, various Women  groups in all wards of the 11 Local Governments of the State. The
First Lady’s delegation was led by Mr. Aliyu Abdullahi the Special
Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity  (Office of the First
Lady), and Mrs. Rose Audu of the Future Assured Program.Aliyu AbdullahiSpecial Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity(Office of the First Lady) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA