Drought-ravaged parts of rural Australia have been hit by dust storms
that threaten to drift over more heavily populated cities including
Sydney, bringing a new element to the extreme weather that has dominated
the country over summer. The vast clouds of thick red dust have smothered inland towns such as
Dubbo in the country’s most populous state, New South Wales, adding to
the run of unusual weather that has disrupted the country since hundreds
of bushfires broke out in September. “I’m just over it,” said Tanya Fulton, manager of the council
swimming pool at Tottenham, a town of 300 people about 500 kms (310
miles) west of Sydney, which was closed on Saturday because of dust in
the water. “I couldn’t even see the bottom of the big pool, and the toddlers’ pool was all mud,” Fulton added by telephone. The storms lashing NSW and neighboring Victoria state have
interrupted a few days’ respite from the high temperatures and dry winds
that have fanned bushfires across an area one-third the size of
Germany, killing 29 people and an estimated one billion native animals. In Canberra, the national capital, cricket ball-sized hail stones
smashed car windows on Monday. Residents posted videos on social media
of themselves sledding through streets in t-shirts. Earlier this month, authorities urged people in Canberra to stay
indoors as bushfire smoke left the air among the most toxic in the
world. The smoke also disrupted preparations for the Australian Open in
Melbourne last week, although the first Grand Slam of the year got under
way on Monday in relatively clean air. [L4N29L4T8] The storms were forecast to hit Sydney late on Monday, prompting No. 2
airline Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd to cut some flights, the company
said in an email. Larger Qantas Airways Ltd said it had canceled three
flights. The storms were also expected to hit hundreds of kilometers of
coastline to the city’s south, the site of mass evacuations weeks
earlier as fires destroyed homes and wiped out swathes of forest. Reuters Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.