The Hon. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, commended the case
management team that separated the conjoined twins at National Hospital
Abuja, saying that “they have demonstrated that our health system, even
with modest resources can rise to the highest challenges and offer
quality care to find its position among renowned international
hospitals’’. The Minister gave this commendation at a Press conference organised
by the hospital, to mark the discharge from the hospital of the set of
conjoined twins, who were joined at the chest and liver. In his brief, Ehanire described the feat as a remarkable operation
that followed very detailed planning and preparation. A mixed team of
indigenous pediatric, plastic and cardio-thoracic Surgeons, led by the
Chief Consultant Pediatric surgeon of the hospital, Professor Emmanuel
Ameh. ‘’It is the first successful operation of this type at this
hospital and it marks a bold venture into the realm of advance
surgery’’ the Minister added. He attributed the successful outcome of the surgery to the
availability of top experts at the Hospital, their dedication to the
medical profession, careful planning, excellent teamwork and
administrative support received by the team. The Minister also stated that as the administration of President
Buhari aims for grassroots universal health coverage, support for
tertiary care to improve performance is by no means, lost. He further appreciated the hospital for being alive to her social and
human responsibility to make healthcare affordable and support patients
with need to access specialised care but with limited means. Similarly, the elated Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke
Olorunnimbe Mamora, applauded the effort of all those who played a role
in the success story. According to him, ‘’this is a testimony to what we
can do. Where there is unity and purpose, success is assured,
healthcare is teamwork, not a solo event. With this achievement, it
means we must play down inter-professional rivalry in the health sector
because it does not do us any good’’ the Minister advised. The Honourable Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen,
expressed her delight over the uncommon feat achieved by the hospital
pledging that her Ministry would continue to work and support the
Federal Ministry of Health in its bid to assist women who in her words
are the ‘’heart of every family’’ The Chief Medical Director(CMD),  Dr. Jaff Momoh, while giving his
welcome address at the Hospital, narrated that the twins were delivered
at Federal Medical Centre Keffi, on 13th August 2018 and referred to the
National Hospital the following day on account of being conjoined at
the chest and abdomen. The CMD added that on assessment of the social status of the family
by the hospital and classifying them as indigent, the Management of
National Hospital decided to fund the care and the entire processes
leading to and including the major surgical procedure for the
separation. He stressed that the management of the patients was multidisciplinary
across many departments, including pharmacy, Nursing, Nutrition,
Medical laboratory and others. Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.