Lagos State Government has announced the restriction and ban of
commercial motorcycles (Okada) and tricycles (Keke) in six local
government areas of the state with effect from Feb. 1. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso,
made this known in Ikeja while addressing newsmen after the State
Security Council Meeting. ”The extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018 bans the operation of
Motorcycles (Okada) and Tricycles (Keke) in some local governments 
areas and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). ”They include Apapa LGA and Apapa Iganmu LCDA, Lagos Mainland LG and
Yaba LCDA, Surulere LGA, Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda LCDAs, Ikeja LGA,
Onigbongbo and Ojodu LCDAs, Eti-Osa LGA, Ikoyi-Obalende and Iru/Victoria
Island LCDAs, then Lagos Island LGA and Lagos Island East LCDA ”The full enforcement begins on Feb. 1, 2020,” the commissioner said. According to him, the rate of crimes aided by motorcycles (okada) and
tricycles (keke) keeps rising, as they are also used as getaway means
by criminals. ”This is the first stage of the state government’s plan to sanitise
our roads and protect Lagosians from the negative effects of these
illegal modes of transportation. ”The law is very clear. Motorcycles (okada) and tricycles (keke) are banned on all highways, bridges and listed roads. ”Major highways include Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Apapa-Oshodi
Expressway, Oworonshoki-Oshodi Expressway, Lagos-Ikorodu Expressway and
Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. ”The highways also include  Eti-Osa/Lekki-Epe Expressway,
Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Funsho Williams Avenue, Agege Motor Road and
Eti-Osa Lekki Coastal Road,” he said. The commissioner said the restricted bridges included Iyana- Ipaja
Bridge Agege, Dopemu Bridge Agege, Airport/Ikeja Bridge, Agege Motor
road/Oshodi Loop, Oshodi, Mushin/Isolo Link Bridge, Dorman Long Bridge. Others are Ojuelegba Bridge, National Stadium Flyover, Apapa-Iganmu
Bridge, Apapa-Ijora Link Bridge, Liverpool Bridge, Apapa, Mile 2
Bridge-Loop, Amuwo-Odofin, Okota (cele)/Ijesha Link Bridge,
Apakun/Apapa-Oshodi Bridge Network, Ikorodu Road/Anthony Clover leaf
Bridge and Trade Fair Flyover Bridge. There are also Festac/Amuwo-Odofin Link Bridge, 2 Flyover Bridges
along Alhaji Masha Road, Ojota Clover Leaf Bridge, Ogudu Bridge, 3rd
Mainland Bridge, Maryland flyover, Ikeja General Hospital Flyover
Bridge, Kodesoh Bridge, Oba Akran, Ikeja, Opebi Link Bridge,
Sheraton-Opebi Bridge, Jibowu/Yaba flyover Bridge, Carter Bridge, Lagos
and Bariga-Ifako Bridge. Included were Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Alapere Bridge,
Bariga/Oworonsoki Bridge, Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Gbagada U-Turn,
Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, 3rd Mainland/Oworonsoki Bridge, Eko Bridge,
Apongbon flyover Bridge, Cowry Bridge (Officers Mess), Mcwen Bridge
(Bonny Camp), Marina/Ikoyi Bridge and Ikoyi/Obalende Bridge. He said that law enforcement agents had been directed that with
effect from Feb. 1, 2020, there would be zero tolerance for motorcycles
and tricycles in (on) the listed local governments, highways and
bridges. ”Members of the public are hereby notified that all offenders and
violators will be dealt with in accordance with the law,” Omotoso said. He said that accident figures of Okada and Keke menace were scary. Omotosho said there were over 10,000 accident victims recorded at the General Hospitals alone from 2016 to 2019. He said this number excluded unreported cases and those recorded by
other hospitals, adding that the total number of deaths from reported
cases was over 600 to date. The commissioner said that some buses had arrived in the port to be
cleared and would be rolled out to ensure that residents were adequately
served. He said the key point was that there was need to make transportation safe in the state. ”Definitely,  people are not going to suffer, the safety and security
of life of Lagosians are paramount to the government,” Omotoso assured.
(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.