Ahead of the January 25 re-run and supplementary elections scheduled
to hold in Sokoto state, Gov. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has urged the
supporters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), to shun violence and
exhibit high sense of maturity. The Governor disclosed this in a statement signed by  the Special
Adviser on Media and Public Affairs, Malam Muhammad Bello, in Abuja on
Friday. The governor appealed for the support  at the Giginya Memorial
Stadium, Sokoto, when he endorsed the party’s candidates for the Sokoto
North and South Federal Constituency rerun election and supplementary
election for State House of Assembly, on Thursday. He also urged the PDP supporters to come out en masse and vote for PDP candidates in the elections. This, he said would  enable the party consolidate its recent gains of
clinching two seats at the National Assembly, one each at the Senate
and the House of Representatives. He expressed optimism that, the PDP candidates would emerge victorious after the election. He used the occasion to thank the people of the state for their
fervent prayers to his administration and assured them of his
determination to continue providing more dividends of democracy to the
people of the state. Also speaking at the event, the former Governor of Sokoto State
Alhaji Attahiru Dalhatu Bafarawa, urged people in the state to sustain
their support and cooperation to the present administration. He also expressed his appreciation to the people in the state for
their overwhelming support to the administration of Gov. Tambuwal. Highlight of the ceremony was the presentation of the PDP candidates
for House of Representatives, Abubakar Abdullahi and that of the State
House of Assembly supplementary election for Sokoto North II
constituency, Hon Arzika Sarki. The ceremony was witnessed by the state deputy governor, Manir
Muhammad Dan Iya, the Secretary to the State Governor, SSG, Saidu Umar,
Senator Ibrahim Danbaba, PDP State Chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma and
other PDP stalwarts. Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.