Eight passengers abducted on Wednesday afternoon along Kaduna-Zaria highway have been rescued by the police. Also rescued were three workers of Airtel Communications Company
abducted on Tuesday, and nine others kidnapped on Jan. 14 when bandits
attacked the convoy of the Emir of Potiskum. The police, however, said in the Wednesday’s attack,  two of the
bandits were shot dead and all the eight abducted passengers rescued. The victims, according to the Kaduna state police command spokesman,
Yakubu Sabo, were travelling to Abuja from Kano when their Sharon
vehicle was forced to stop by the bandits. According to Sabo, the police responded quickly after receiving
information from its DPO in Mararraban Jos at about 3 pm that bandits
had blocked the Kaduna-Zaria highway and abducted eight persons. “On receipt of the information, the Command mobilized teams of
operatives with some Armoured Personnel Carrier to the area, engaged the
attackers, successfully gunned down two of the bandits and rescued all
the eight victims unhurt while many other bandits escaped with bullet
wounds,” he said. He identified the passengers rescued as Aisha Umar, Samira Ibrahim
Dakata, Safiya Idris, Hauwa Aliyu, Aisha Yakubu, Ma’aru Adam, Safiya
Audu and  Yahaya Bello, all of Kano State. He said the police are still on the trail of the hoodlums with a view to apprehending and bringing them to justice. In a separate incident, the police have also rescued three workers of
Airtel Communications Company abducted in Giwa Local Government Area of
the state on Tuesday. Sabo said the workers, Henry Agim, Kamal Raman and Segun Adejimoh,
were abducted from Maidaro village in  the local government, but the
police were alerted by a good Samaritan. “After a fierce gun duel, we successfully rescued all the three workers unhurt,” the command’s spokesman said. “While, on manhunt of the fleeing bandits, our operatives also
intercepted nine other captives who were passengers of the Morcopolo
luxurious bus that was attacked along Kaduna- Zaria Road on Jan. 14,
alongside the convoy of the Emir of Potiskum at Foundation village. “The victims are identified as; Abdulhafiz Wakil, Abdul Wasiu Jimmoh,
Mujittaba, Hajara Usman, Emmanuela Dimka,  Dahiru Isa and three others
who were debriefed by the Commissioner of Police and supported to be
reunited with their respective families. “The Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri sincerely appreciates the
cooperation of the local communities who helped the Command to overcome
the current security challenges.” He further urged for more support to enable the police reduce criminal activities in the state to the barest level. (NAN) 