The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) and other health workers on
Thursday embarked on a peaceful protest walk in Abuja to express their
grievances over rising incidence of assaults and violence on its
members. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the protesters took a
walk to the office of the FCT Minister over incessant attacks, assaults
and violence meted on medical doctors and other health workers by
relatives of patients. The protesters carried placards with several inscriptions, including:
“We Care for You Why Beat Us’’, “Better Securities in our Hospitals’’,
“Say No to Violence Against Health Workers“, “Doctors and Health Workers
deserve Better’’. NAN reports that the doctors had on Wednesday embarked on a three-day
warning strike across FCT general hospitals over recent assault and
stripping naked of a female doctor by relatives of a deceased patient in
Maitama District Hospital, FCT. Addressing the protesters, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu
Aliyu, appealed to the doctors to call off the strike as the authority
was already addressing the issue, which will bring an end to all forms
of assaults on all persons. “I appeal that you call off the strike and just give us the benefit
of doubt and see what will be done in a shortest time. I will come
personally and talk to all hospitals in the FCT to know whatever
challenges you are facing there. “We appreciate your patience and understanding that you didn’t take
laws into your hands and we assure you that the issue is receiving
attention your demand is taken seriously and given utmost attention. “Violence is not acceptable whether on male or female at the FCT or anywhere else in the country,’’ she stressed. According to her, the FCT will synergise with the ministry of health,
information and culture and other stakeholders towards educating the
public towards imbibing the rights attitude and culture of law abiding
citizens. While calling on them continue their duties in proving medical care
and attention to the public, the minister assured them of their safety
and protection, while discharging their duties. The FCT Chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr Ekpe
Philips, said the association was pursing through the National Health
Act or Bills jail term for any person that perpetrate any form of
violence on health workers. “We are pursuing through the National Health Act or through the
bills, we will make sure that if there is violence against any health
worker, there is a particular term of jail to serve for such persons. “We are advocating that there should be an undertaking by the
patients that the relatives would not show any violence against health
worker in Nigerian hospitals again.” Also, Dr Eleanor Nwadinobi, International President, Medical Women
International Association (MWIA), decried the series of attacks meted on
health workers, which she said was a threat to their life and
profession. “There should be no hiding place for perpetrators of this type of  violence. It is important that we feel safe, while discharging our duties. “This is Nigeria, FCT in particular, where the 2015 violence against Persons (VAP) Acts was passed and signed. “We are here today to speak clearly and to say no more should this
happen to any of us in line of duty and we expect justice to be done to
our colleague and she should have all the support she needs,’’ she said. On her part, Dr Aisha Umar FCT President, Medical Women Association,
stressed the need for relatives of patients to exercise decorum, rather
than inflict injuries on medical workers discharging their duties. “It is wrong for patients relative to take out their anger while
expressing their grievances on the doctors or health workers; many
doctors have left, we are the ones left behind, so we should not be
treated that way,” she said. The FCT President, ARD, Dr Roland Aigbovo, said the association would
hold an emergency congress to address the issues on calling off the
strike as appealed by the Federal Government. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.