The International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO), on Friday
flagged-off disbursement of N317 million assistance to 1,176 orphans in
Sokoto state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the beneficiaries were from
less privileged families across the 23 local government areas in the
state. Sen. Aliyu Wamako, anchor of the programme, said that it was started in 2009 with the registration of orphans in the state. Wamako, represented  by Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman, former minister of
Transport, said IIRO is a reputable donor organization that had executed
many projects in the state. Wamako said IIRO’s activities comprised building of Islamiya Schools, construction of Mosques and assisting the needy. ” The organization has come to implement the programme of giving
scholarship to these orphans, which will serve as an assistance to
enable them pursue education in their chosen careers,” Wamako said. According to him, the gesture is empower the orphans to be educated and self reliant, so as to be useful members of the society. Wamako called on the guardians of the benefiting orphans to have the
fear of Allah and ensure judicious utilization of the funds. ” We shall remember that, we will account for our deeds in the Hereafter. ” I also like to call on all of us to dedicate whatever is within our
means to assist orphans, widows and the less privileged in our society. ” This is because, no amount is too little and no amount is too much if it is given to the needy for the sake of Allah.” The Senator commended the Organization, based in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, for the gesture and for all other projects executed in Sokoto
State. He further appealed to the organization to execute more projects and programmes in the state. Mr Huzaifa Tahir, the IIRO representative, said that the assistance was for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 periods. Tahir disclosed that each the beneficiary would get a minimum of N200,000 and a maximum of N400,000 to finance their education. He said that the outstanding arrears from 2014, would be disbursed to the beneficiaries soon. Sheikh Yahuza Tambuwal, Chief Imam of Uthman bin Affan Jumaat Mosque,
Sokoto,  in a lecture, admonished the Muslim Ummah to  assist orphans,
as enshrined in Islam. He commended the sponsors for the effort and enjoined officials handling the programme to ensure transparency in their dealings. Some of the beneficiaries, Ahmad Umar and Safiya Babuga, expressed
appreciation over the gesture and said the funds would greatly boost
their education and enhance their living. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA