The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Abeokuta Field Office
has donated 40 units of 12.5kg gas cylinders to the food vendors of the
Federal Government Home Grown School Feeding Programme in Ogun. The cylinders were donated to the beneficiaries by the Operations
Controller, DPR, Abeokuta Field Office, Mrs Muinat Bello-Zagi, at a
sensitisation programme in Abeokuta on Friday. The sensitisation programme is with the theme: “LPG Penetration Awareness Campaign for Home Grown School Feeding Programme”. Bello-Zagi said the gesture was to improve the penetration of Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) in Ogun. She said it was also to among other things, alleviate the suffering
and bring a new lease of life to the vendors who are accustomed to using
fire woods and charcoal to do their cooking. Bello-Zagi said that DPR embarked on the awareness programme to
enlighten food vendors and the general public on the advantages of using
gas to cook. She argued that gas is safer and environmental friendly compared to charcoal and fire wood. The controller, who listed other advantages of gas, said it does not
contain sulphur which is found in charcoal and fire wood, said to be
dangerous to human health and the environment. “We learnt that some of them (food vendors and caterers) have been
using charcoal and firewood and as we all know, charcoal and fire wood
do have some negative impact on the environment and the health, so we
decided to create this awareness to promote the use of LPG among them. “The other objective of the programme is to support them and that is
why the DPR field office has presented them the LPG cylinders free of
charge. “We also want to create awareness on the safe use of gas cylinders;
how to operate it, how to maintain the cylinder and what to watch out
for before buying a cylinder. “Also to create awareness on what to do when there is any issue with
the cylinder, where to go and how to get it repaired,” she explained. Bello-Zagi urged gas users to always patronise DPR licensed gas
plants whenever they want to fill their cylinders and desist from
patronising unlicensed road side gas vendors to avoid fire accidents. The Chairperson of the vendors, Mrs Olanike Okeleye, who responded on
behalf of her colleagues, commended the DPR for the gesture, saying the
awareness programme was not only interesting, but also useful for the
vendors and caterers. She urged the DPR to extend the programme to other parts of the state to capture other LPG users. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.