The President of the Appeal Court, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, on Monday, inaugurated the 17th Division of the Court in Asaba. Bukalchuwa, at the ceremony, said the branch would help address the
existing ”traffic and congestion” in the court as well as reduce the
attending costs of accessing justice by litigants across the country. She said the court, located on Mariam Babangida Way, in the Delta capital, met international standards. She said the appellate court at inception in 1976, had only three judicial division: Lagos, Kaduna and Enugu . She said: “In 1977, the number was increased to five with the
establishment of Benin and Ibadan divisions; subsequently other
divisions were added and the court had 16th division as at yesterday. “Today, we are here to commission the 17th Division if the Court of Appeal in Asaba, Delta. “The establishment of the new division is an aspect of the judicial
reform agenda to enhance access to justice and speedy disposal of cases
as well as efficient administration of justice. “It is for this reason that the court of appeal is seeking to
increase the number of its divisions to reduce difficulty associated
with many distance travels, cost of transportation and delay due to
congestions.” She lauded the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim
Muhammad, Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa and all who made it possible for the court
to be established, and prayed that it would serve the citizens in
fairness and equity. On his part, Okowa said that the inauguration of the court complex
remained a thing of great joy, satisfaction, hope and fulfillment to the
legal profession and the people of the state. “The opening of this court today demonstrates our commitment to the rule of law and social justice. “Before now, Delta was served by the Court of Appeal, Benin Division;
with growing economic, political and social activities, the judges were
overburdened. “It might interest us to know that between 50 and 60 per cent of the
recent election petitions that went up to the court of appeal in Benin
were from Delta state alone. “The creation of the Court of Appeal, Asaba Division, is therefore a welcome relief. “It will de congest the court’s cause list and eliminate the attendant  risks and costs associates with frequent trips to Benin and back to  Delta,” he said. He expressed hope that the court would ensure speedy access to  justice in a cost-effective manner and its presence as a federal  institution would enhance the profile of the state, create job and  impact positively of the retail economy. NAN 