The Dangote Tomato Processing Company, Kadawa, says it has recruited
no fewer than 100 skilled and casual workers ahead of its production
resumption. The company also announced that it would officially resume production
on Feb. 7, after suspending operations in April 2019, due to inadequate
supply of raw materials. Its Managing Director, Alhaji Abdulkarim Kaita, told the News Agency
of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano on Wednesday, that the company had concluded
necessary preparations for the commencement of operations. “We have since recruited about 100 workers both skilled and casual,
as we are prepared to run the company for 24 hours on daily basis,” he
said. Kaita, who is also the Managing Director of Dangote Farms Ltd., said
when the company resumes operation, it would commence with 200 tonnes of
fresh tomato per day until the supply of the commodity increased. “The plant has the capacity to process 1,200 tonnes of fresh tomatoes
per day. But for a start now, we are going to process 200 tonnes per
day. But as time goes on, we will increase the number of tonnage,” he
said. He disclosed that the company had started buying the product from
farmers who were registered under the Anchor Borrower programme of the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). NAN reports that the Federal Government under the Anchor Borrower
programme had registered 10,000 tomato growers to benefit from the
intervention programme during the dry season farming. However, following some challenges in the distribution of the tomato
seedlings, only 1,000 out of the 10,000 registered farmers were able to
access the seedlings due to late commencement of the distribution
exercise. NAN also reports that the idea behind including tomato in the Anchor
Borrower programme was borne out of the federal government’s commitment
to support tomato growers and boost local production of the commodity in
the country. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.