Ahead of the national census of commercial and industrial businesses
in the country, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), on Thursday
conducted a workshop to sensitise   stakeholders from 18 Northern states
on the project. The Statistician General of the Federation, Dr Yemi Kale, said at the
opening of the workshop in Kaduna that it was to provide clear
understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders
towards the success of the enumeration exercise. He noted that the such census was conducted 21 years ago in
1998/1999, as such it was imperative to get new and accurate data of the
businesses to support policy formulation and implementation. According to him, the data generated would help government and the
private sector in proper planning for the sector as well as meeting key
SDGs targets. Kale who was represented by Simon Harry, NBS Head of Corporate
Planning and Technical Coordination, stressed that it was important for
the country to join the global information society by having accurate
data on all areas of development. “There is need for reliable statistical information to be able to
manage critical sectors such as education, health, environment,
commerce, industry and agriculture. “Without it, we cannot make well informed decisions that will
catalyse our social and economic development for the improvement of the
welfare of the citizenry, “This informs the conduct of the NCCIB to enable us track the growth
of the economy and the contribution of all relevant sectors,” the
statistician-general said. He further explained that the National Census of Commercial and
Industrial Business (NCCIB) is also designed to complement other
important surveys like the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), and
National Nutrition and Health Survey conducted by the NBS. Kale disclosed that the census would help to provide answers on the
number of business enterprises each state of the federation has, their
location, employment strength and capacity utilization. “Such information is critical in determining the direction and strength of the nation’s economy,” He said that at the end of the exercise, it will be easier to
classify businesses into small, medium and large enterprises, as well as
their spread across the 774 local government areas in the country. Kale said the NBS is collaborating with the World Bank and will
deploy Information Communication Technology (ICT) at every stage of the
exercise. “We shall be using the computer assisted personnel interviewer devices during field work operations. “Also for ease of accessibility and in order to avoid overlapping,
the entire country has been divided into blocks (LGAs) and segments to
enable the data collected to be tracked by areas of concentration of
business in Nigeria.” He explained that the process of blocking has been completed, while work on segmentation is ongoing. The statistician-general, therefore, solicited the support of all stakeholders towards the success of the census. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.