The Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic  Oladeinde, on Tuesday said that most of the ongoing road junctions  improvement work would be delivered by the end of March to ease traffic  flow in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the state government,
through the Ministry of Transportation, is currently reconfiguring some
roundabouts to accommodate more vehicles and reduce gridlock. The junction improvement work is ongoing at Allen Roundabout,
Maryland Roundabout, First and Second Lekki Roundabouts and Ikotun
Roundabout. Oladeinde, while speaking to newsmen at Maryland roundabout during
the inspection tour of the projects, said that most of them would be
delivered by the end of March, and opened up up April. The commissioner said that the Oando and Mobil gas stations at the
Maryland roundabout had been taken over by the government for the
project and that they would be turned to bus parks. According to him, the junctions improvement work is aimed at
increasing their capacity to accommodate more vehicles and reduce travel
time for economic development. “There are no structures affected here (Maryland) apart from the two
petrol stations that have been taken over by Lagos State Government
because we are going to turn them into bus parks or terminals. “Apart from these, no structure is affected except the statue that we
have taken out and relocated. This project will be completed by the end
of March,” Oladeinde said. He said that the removal of the statue at the roundabout had become
imperative to increase the capacity of the junction from two lanes to
three lanes, in order to accommodate more vehicles and reduce gridlock
at peak period. The commissioner said that the government was also increasing to two,
the lanes for vehicles coming from Mobolaji Bank Anthony to Ojota, to
remove gridlock. He said that the government would install traffic light and reconfigure it to improve traffic flow. At Lekki First and Second Roundabouts, Oladeinde, said that the project was more than 50 per cent completed. He said that government was taking away the roundabouts to equally
increase their capacity to accommodate more vehicles and reduce gridlock
in the area. According to him, the government is making a maximum use of the
8-plot roundabouts to create more lanes, install traffic light and
signalise them. He said that there would be six lanes instead of four at the
roundabouts for the purpose of eliminating gridlock around the area. “The project will be completed by the end of March. Most of these
projects will be completed by end of March and by April, people will be
getting a relief they are expecting. “We don’t want rainy season to catch up with us here,” Oladeinde said. Earlier at the Allen Roundabout, Oladeinde said: “we can see that a
lot of work is going on and the whole junction improvement work is
taking shape. “Hopefully by the middle of April, we should complete the work here.
We are waiting till the middle of April to open this up for the public
use.” According to him, the work is also to increase the capacity of the
roundabout to accommodate more vehicles, thereby reducing gridlock
around the area. On the possibility of completing the project on time with the level
of work and the need to demolish part of some properties, Oladeinde said
that the project would be delivered on schedule. He said that the contractor was working day and night and had met with all critical stakeholders. “Everything that needs to be done in terms of planning has been done.
What we are waiting for is execution. Planning is what takes time,
execution is very fast. “Once we work 24 hours, daytime and night time, we should be able to
complete it. That is why I said middle of April; the contractor promised
end of March. “By middle of April, I am 100 per cent confident that this place will be opened,” he added. He urged the motoring public to bear with the government, which was
doing everything possible to expedite the work and minimise delay. “The essence of removing the roundabouts is to increase the capacity
of the junctions. The junctions have outlasted their usefulness and they
could not cope with the demand experienced everyday. “We are taking out the roundabouts by increasing their capacity so that we can have more cars come through the junctions. On the property owners who would be affected by the junctions
improvement work at Allen, Oladeinde said that they had been consulted,
sent letters and would be compensated. “We are not just removing the roundabouts, we are expanding the roads so that we can have three lanes all the way to Ikeja. “We are increasing the capacity so that we can accommodate more cars and reduce congestion,” he added. According to him, the traffic managers, especially officers of the
Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), are doing everything
possible to ensure traffic flow at the junctions. Mr Olajide Oduyoye, the General Manager, LASTMA, also told newsmen
that the officers of the authority were working to ensure traffic flow. ‘We are working in tandem with the Ministry of Transportation (MOT).
Our primary duty and assignment is to ensure that programmes of MOT
works out well. “While the construction of those junctions are going on, LASTMA officers are there to control traffic.” According to him, things keep changing around the junctions and a lot of drivers get confused. “We are on ground to ensure that drivers understand the diversions
and limitations and to make sure that traffic is moving around. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA