The National Horticultural  Research Institute(NIHORT) says 700,000 million metric tonnes of  tomatoes are required to meet the nation’s demand for it. Dr Abayomi Olaniyan, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
of NIHORT said this at a two-day training workshop in Abuja on
Wednesday. The training was organised by the institute for critical stakeholders
in tomato and telfairia (pumpkin or `Ugu’ leaf) production and value
addition. “Though Nigeria is currently producing 2.3 million metric tonnes as
against 1.8 million produced two years ago, more needs to be done to
meet the three million metric tonnes national demand. “Tomato production in Nigeria is still short of what is demanded
particularly during the second and third quota of the year. While about
three million metric tonnes is the national requirement, about 2.3
metric tonnes are the production. “About two years ago, the production was 1.8 million metric tonnes
but because of the trainings and technologies that NIHORT has perfected
alongside other stakeholders, the production has increased by about 25
per cent. “That is the reason we are getting the production figure of 2.3
million metric tonnes as against 1.8 million metric tonnes,” he said. The chief executive officer said that one of the major reasons for
the deficit was post-harvest loss, adding that about 40 per cent of
tomatoes is often wasted. He added that tomato nursery practices are other reasons for the
deficit in supply, stressing that “tomatoes management is important for
future development of the commodity value chain. “Nursery is a basic need and prerequisite for producing quality
seedlings. Putting efforts on quality seedling production offers scope
for sustainable tomato production. “Additionally, nursery provides employment opportunities for technical, skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labour.” On telfairia, known as `Ugu’ in Nigeria, Olaniyan noted that the
pumpkin leaf is of high nutritional, medicinal and industrial value,
adding that it was rich in protein, fat, minerals and vitamins. According to him, there is high prospect in production and marketing
of telfairia within and outside the country, saying basic knowledge on
value addition was important. He said the two-day training would cover tomato value addition and
processing among other things, to reduce seasonal glut and inconsistent
year round supply. The NIHORT boss added that processing of tomato would help reduce the
amount been imported into the country particularly “during lean season
of tomato supply.” He urged the participants to pay critical attention to all the sessions to make the best use of the opportunity. He assured them of the institute’s readiness to liaise with relevant  stakeholders to support and promote their various entrepreneurial skills  along the value chain. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.