Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has sacked two of his aides allegedly
involved in a murder during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
councillorship primaries on Feb.21. The governor also directed the police command in the state to arrest the two aides for possible prosecution. The directive was contained in a statement signed and issued by the
Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Dr Kenneth Ugbala, in Abakaliki
on Sunday. Ugbala said the affected aides were Uche Ibiam, the Coordinator of
Ubeyi Development Centre of Afikpo North Local Government Area and Mr
Ibiam Ogbonnaya, a Technical Assistant (TA) on security. “The governor further directs security agencies to carry out
investigations and prosecute all those found guilty in the crime in
accordance with extant laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The governor assures Ebonyi people of their safety and his readiness
to sustain the peace and tranquility reigning in the state,” he said. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah,
who confirmed the incident, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that
the matter had been reported to the command. She said that the command had already commenced investigation into the incident. “We can confirm the death of Mr Enyinnaya Ibiam during the primaries
at Afikpo North Local Government Area of the state and the recovery of a
vehicle belonging to the coordinator of Ubeyi Development Centre,
abandoned at the area. “Information reaching us indicates that the coordinator allegedly
hired and stormed the scene of the primaries with thugs who shot
sporadically, resulting in the death of one person and injuries to
several people. “When the vehicle was searched, we recovered a bag containing a locally made pistol and six live ammunition,” she said. She said that the coordinator had not been arrested and promised that
the matter would be thoroughly investigated and the culprits brought to
book. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.