Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau has cautioned religious, traditional,
political and opinion leaders against using inciteful and divisive
languages in their statements which could cause unrest in the society. Lalong made the call on Friday in Jos at the 2nd National Summit on
Peaceful Coexistence and Nation Building, organised by Dawah
Coordination Council of Nigeria (DCCN) He said many followers held their leaders in high esteem and
respected them as role models, and urged the leaders to preach love and
tolerance and not hatred, to ensure peaceful coexistence. He said the theme of the Summit: “Leadership and Good Governance:
Bedrock for Peaceful Coexistence” was apt and relevant to the current
challenges in the country. “We must not always exploit the fault lines of politics, religion and
ethnicity which can easily make us derail and create disharmony among
the people. “If we do justice to all irrespective of differences, there will be
peace and progress. Anything contrary, will make us slide deeper into
chaos, “the governor said. He said the responsibilities of every good leader was to bridge the
gap and reduce the factors that triggered mistrust, hatred and bigotry
between different ethnic nationalities and religious adherents. He said this could only be possible with genuine commitment to truth,
justice, faithfulness and compliance to the oath of office and the
Constitution of the country. “Another area where leadership and good governance needs to be
critically looked at is the management of public resources in a prudent,
accountable and equitable manner. This will facilitate the creation of
jobs and economic opportunities as well as reducing crime,” he said. Lalong said Plateau had in the last four years reduced wasteful
spending, ensured transparency and created many jobs through the Plateau
Small and Medium Enterprises Agency (PLASMEDA) and other agencies. “At the end of last year, the National Bureau of Statistics declared
Plateau State as the second least corrupt State in the country. We
intend to be number one in the next report by the Grace of God,”he said. Earlier in his remarks, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad
Abubakar lll, cautioned religious leaders against hate speeches and
preaching inciteful messages. He commended Lalong for his efforts to restore peace in the state,
saying peace building was critical to the development of the state. In his remarks, the National President, DCCN, Malam Mohammed Maidoki ,
said the objective of the summit was to create a platform for critical
stakeholders of peace to make conscious efforts for security and
peaceful coexistence. Maidoki said the organisation had been promoting peace for the past
two decades and condemned the recent attacks in Bokkos and Mangu local
government areas of the state during which more than 30 lives were lost,
saying violence affected everyone. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the governor had during the day
also hosted the Second Annual Plateau Day of Forgiveness and
Reconciliation where he called for harmonious coexistence irrespective
of ethnic and religious differences. At the event which was organised by the state’s Peace Building Agency
(PBA), Lalong said the state was making efforts to find a new narrative
that did not only prevent conflict but also encouraged dialogue “On a day such as this, therefore, I stand before you by the grace of
God as the Governor and Chief Executive of Plateau State to on behalf
of all the good people of our dear state, ask for forgiveness from
everyone who has suffered one loss or the other,”he said.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA