Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says that the closure of
the country’s border is necessary to protect the Nigerian economy
against unfair actions which run contrary to acceptable norms. Sanwo-Olu said this at the Center for Values in Leadership (CVL) 17th
Annual Lecture and International Leadership Symposium on Intra-African
Trade Service on Thursday in Lagos. The theme was: Intra African Trade: Growth and Economic Development. The governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat,
emphasized that trade between nations thrived on the commitment of
parties to the principles of fairness, integrity and equity. “If these principles are breached with its attendant negative effects
on the economy of one party, then the sustenance of trade relations and
the mutual benefits that should accrue from such, would be threatened,”
Sanwo-Olu said. According to him, it is wrong to view the border closure as an action against the objectives of promoting intra-African trade. Sanwo-Olu said that the continent and individual countries “stand to
gain a lot in terms of enhanced economic growth and development if
greater attention is focused on improving the current level of
intra-African trade. ”The African Continental Trade Agreement (AfCTA), if well
implemented, has a potential to increase intra-African trade by about 52
per cent by 2020,” Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier in a goodwill message, the Deputy Governor of Jigawa, Alhaji
Umar Lamidi, said that intra-African trade was necessary to alleviate
poverty in African countries. Lamidi said Jigawa State Government was partnering with the Central Bank of Africa (CBN) in tackling the problem of poverty. Also speaking, Deputy Governor of Edo, Phillip Shuaib, said that
intra-African trade must be taken seriously in order to unlock untapped
potentials. Shuaib said the adoption of AfCTA had created the largest trading
block in the world and also resurrected the goldmines that had been
neglected for so long. “For us to enjoy the benefit of our expanded market, we must first
work toward reducing or even eliminating those barriers that hinder the
African trade such as cross border conflicts, piracy, tariff and
transport infrastructure deficit,” he said The founder of CVL Prof Pat Utomi, a political economist and
management expert, said that Nigerian businessmen must be men of
integrity who respect contracts and frown at impunity.(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.