A Professor of Food Technology, Lateef Sanni, on Saturday, urged the
government and the citizens to engage in cassava value chain because of
its numerous benefits. Sanni, of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAB),
gave the advice at a workshop, organised by the Agroimpact Projects and
Empowerment Initiative of the University of Ibadan Women Society (UIWS). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the workshop focused on ‘Cassava: Products, Businesses and Accessing Markets’. Sanni remarked that cassava starch value chain was the most
optimistic in terms of economic and technical feasibility for growth in
the short and medium terms. He added that cassava livestock feed business could be a profitable
business which people and farmers could engage in for self-reliance. The former FUNAAB deputy vice chancellor, emphasised that high
quality cassava flour could be a good intermediate product which Nigeria
could invest in and make huge profits. “Gari processing and sales alone can bring millions of Naira to the person investing in it. “You don’t need to establish a factory before you can start the
business; just locate some processing units and good packaging bags and
start your sale. “You can have a stand-alone SME producing, processing and marketing
cassava products; you can also join input suppliers and agro-dealers,
among others. “Cassava business is not as dull as people think;  one can start
gradually and later get others and work with them, engage in team work
and networking to be able to make profit and progress,” he said. Earlier, the Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Ibadan,
Prof. Jacob Babayemi, represented by a lecturer in the faculty, Prof.
Adeniyi Togun, said the workshop was apt, especially with cassava as a
major staple food in the country. The UIWS President, Dr Wumi Olayinka, said a lot of foods and
material resources could be produced from cassava, as it could serve as a
source of employment to thousands of people. She urged the participants, drawn from across the country, to make
the most use of the opportunity given by the workshop and impact the
lives of others positively as well. Also, the Chairperson of AgroImpact Projects and Empowerment
Initiative, Dr Morufat Balogun, said that the project also involved
other initiatives such as: maize, tree planting, tomato and others,
aside than cassava. She added that the organization collaborated with the International
Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and other research institutes. Balogun said that the workshop, which was a follow up to the ones it
had in the past, was on how to access market and make more profit and
livelihood from the cassava value chain. “The workshop will be participatory and evaluative; so we expect that
every participant will surely go home with something at the end,” she
said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the workshop had in
attendance representatives of IITA, Faculty of Renewable Natural
Resources and Crop Protection as well as Environmental Biology, both of
UI. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.