The Director-General of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC),
Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has tasked state coordinators  on the safety
and welfare  of corps members during the 2020 batch A orientation
exercise. Ibrahim said this in Abuja on Tuesday at the 2020 batch A
pre-orientation meeting of management with Area Coordinators, State
Coordinators, camp directors, camp commandants and collaborating
agencies. He said that the coordinators would be held responsibly in the event of the death of any corps member during the exercise. “The warning is for all the state coordinator to take his or her job
seriously, they should not have lackadaisical attitude towards our corps
members. “We want to also let them know that the scheme places more emphasis
toward the corps members because they are the future leaders of this
country. “The state coordinators must be up and doing to ensure that the
welfare and security of corps members are paramount to them,’’ he said. Ibrahim said that the 2020 Batch A orientation programme was
scheduled to hold in all the orientation camps nationwide from March 10
to March 30. He commended the collaborating agencies and camp officials on their
commitment and teamwork which led to the successes recorded during the
2019 Batch B orientation courses and previous exercise. Ibrahim said that the meeting was to enable the scheme to evaluate
the previous orientation courses, brainstorm and evolve strategies for
the success of the forthcoming exercise. He said the meeting would unveil policies and operational guidelines for implementation in all the orientation camps nationwide. Ibrahim urged all camp officials to work hard and imbibe team spirit so as to ensure a hitch-free exercise. “Their experiences during the orientation course play a pivotal role in the overall success of the service year,’’ he said. Ibrahim said the meeting would tackle issues, such as orientation
camp facilities, corps members’ security, management intervention, corps
welfare and corps members’ dress code. He said that the tailors operating in the camps should be warned to
observe prescribed limits while adjusting the uniform for corps members
or risk being decamped. According to him, the meeting must pay special attention to the welfare of corps members and camp officials. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.