Damaturu, Feb. 26, 2020 (NAN) Yobe State Government says it has  embarked on sesnsitisation activities to create awareness to prevent  outbreak of Lassa fever in the state. Abdullahi Bego, the Commissioner for Information, Home Affairs and
Culture, made the disclosure at the inauguration of exercise on
Wednesday in Damaturu. Bego said the campaign was designed to ensure that there is no outbreak of the disease in the state. He said the state government has mobilised resources from the
Ministries of Information; Health, Local Government and Chieftaincy
Affairs as well Primary Healthcare Management Board to avoid  outbreak
of the disease. Bego said: “We have adopt the all-hands-on-deck approach to reach out
to communities and ensure that they are adequately informed and
educated about the dangers of Lassa fever. “We will sensitise them on the steps they need to take to protect themselves against coming in contact with the disease”. Bulama Yaro, an Official of the Public Health Department, Ministry of
Health, highlighted major symptoms of the disease and enjoined people
to report any symptoms to the nearest health centre for quick possible
diagnosis and treatment. According to him, the symptoms manifest gradually, starting with
fever, general weakness, and depression, adding that after few days,
headache, sore throat, muscle pain, chest pain, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, cough, and abdominal pains among others comes forth. Also speaking, the Emir of Damaturu, Shehu Hashimi, commended the
state government’s proactive measure of sensitising the people on the
symptoms of the disease and the preventive tips to avoid infection. Hashimi called on religious and community leaders to sensitise their
subjects on the need to keep a clean environment to contain spread of
the disease. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA