Google Nigeria, and IGHUB, a
technology-based outfit, on Saturday organised a capacity building
seminar to train Abia teachers on online safety in Aba. IGHUB’s CEO, Daniel Chinagozi, said the
training would ensure that the teachers were educated on the need for
Online Safety and Security in order to pass the knowledge to their
pupils and students. Chinagozi said the first session of the
training involved teachers from three Local Government Areas: Osisioma,
Aba North and Aba South of the state. He noted that the project would also be extended to the other 14 local government areas of Abia in the coming weeks. Mr Edward Esene, Team member of IGHUB,
who handled one of the sessions, said that teachers were very important
in moulding societies. Esene said their importance to society
was the reason for the capacity building seminar entitled: “Online
Safety for Teachers” through which they could learn and in turn teach
their students. He said the internet was full of dangers
such as open access to pornographic sites, betting, gaming and other
sites that might hurt young people if not guided. According to him, the dangers on the
internet necessitated the education of internet users which has a larger
number of children and the youth. Earlier, Abia Commissioner for Education,
Dr Kelechi Nwangwa, said that education was a very important tool for
building a great society. He said that teachers were the only
professionals with a reward and wages as well because their offsprings
enjoyed and progressed through their intellectual capacity. Nwangwa said the title of the seminar
suggested that the internet had  dangers users needed to be aware of and
be protected from hence the need for the training. The commissioner was represented by Mr
Christopher Osuagwu, Deputy Executive Secretary, Secondary Schools
Education Board (SEMB), Aba. Participants at the seminar expressed
happiness that Google, Public and Private Development Centre, Digital
Inclusion and Safer Internet, WEB Rangers and the state government’s
partnership with IGHUB gave them the opportunity. One of the teachers who participated at
the seminar, Mr Charles Ononiwu, noted that the training could be
improved to enable the participants to master the lessons and teach the
children. Ms Angela Ndubuisi and Mr Arisa Steve  thanked the organisers for the seminar but also asked that the training  engaged the teachers deeper into internet activities that formed part of  the curriculum. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.