Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, on Thursday assured that the State  Government will implement the new minimum wage for civil servants at the  end of January. Buni announced this in Damaturu, while swearing the reappointed  Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Baba Malam-Wali and eight  newly appointed Permanent Secretaries. The governor urged the appointees to be upright in their respective offices to help fast track development in the state. Buni who also received report of the state committee on education, said  the challenge of the Boko Haram insurgency had set back educational  progress of the state by many years. “The administration would immediately constitute Implementation Task  Force comprising of relevant agencies and stakeholders to implement the  recommendations of the report. “This is because given the fierce urgency of the tasks at hand, we have  no time to waste, we need to have schools that equip our children from  the earliest ages with the skills they need to succeed in today’s very  competitive world. “We need to have an education system that could unleash our children’s  power of imagination and give them the capacity to be who they want to  be in their lives. “There are so many children in many communities across the state who  wake up everyday thinking and dreaming of becoming doctors, and  engineers, and nurses, and teachers and architects. “After so many attempts in the past, this is our opportunity to give our  education sector the highest priority it deserves and provide access to  the best possible education for our children,” he said. Buni said government had commenced implementation of some of the  recommendations of the committee with audit and verification of  teachers. “I have approved the establishment of science, engineering and  mathematics schools in Damaturu, Nguru and Potiskum and a Teacher  Training Centre in Damaturu to improve the capacity of teachers. “About 2,200 teachers have received additional training so far,” Bunu said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA