The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Culture and
Tourism, Rep. Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, says the National Assembly (NASS)
is committed to protecting government properties. Ogbeide-Ihama made this known when members of the committee visited the Arts and Crafts Village on Friday in Abuja. He said that it was their mandate and oversight function as
parliamentarians to ensure that the village and other government
properties were protected. According to him, the land which measures about 23 hectares, belongs
to the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) and frowned at
individuals encroaching on the land. This, he explained, prompted National Assembly intervention. “It is possible for government to acquire lands from individuals, but
it is unacceptable for individuals to acquire government property and
we will not allow government property to be taken away. “We have been briefed on the illegal activities going on in the
closed arts and crafts village and it is our duty to protect the
village. “This village is the only cultural village the nation has, and
globally cultural villages are where tourists shop for arts and crafts,
so we are committed in making sure the village is protected from
hoodlums and criminals, among others. “We are endowed with rich cultural heritage and this is the only
place we can showcase our God given heritage and any attempt for
continuous encroachment will warrant a call for public hearing “No individual is bigger than government and we will ensure that
lives and properties are protected when the village is re-opened,” he
said. The chairman however commended the management of NCAC for continuous
doggerdness in securing the village and the Inspector General of Police
for their support in safe guarding the village. Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, the Director-General of NCAC, said that the
Arts and Crafts village would provide job opportunities for over 500
Nigerians upon re-opening. Runsewe also said that its management was fighting to retain the village for the benefits of Nigerian children. He noted that the nearly completed arts and crafts village have 165
shops already and assured that the place would be fully secured when
opened for business. According to him, the village have an upgrade in its facilities such
as 20 toilets compared to previous three toilets, pharmaceutical shop, a
barber shop and a photo shop. He further said that law and order must be maintained in the village
upon opening, adding that there must be time for resumption and closing. Runsewe therefore appreciated the House Committee on Culture and
Tourism for their commitment in ensuring that government property was
protected. He also commended the Inspector General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu,
for his support and prompt intervention in safe guarding the village.
(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.