University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) has condoled with the university
community over the killings of passengers in an attack coordinated by
Boko Haram insurgents at Auno village in Konduga, Borno. In a condolence message by Prof. Danjuma Gambo, Director Radio and
Public Relations, on Wednesday in Maiduguri, the university sympathized
with students, parents and the state government over the incident. Gambo condemned the attack as ‘heart breaking’, saying that the
incident occurred at a time when the university was coming to terms with
recent loss of its students in a devastating circumstance. He said that: “It is now confirmed that many precious lives and huge amount of property were destroyed in the incident. “Unfortunately, a number of students of the university were lost in
it, thereby aggravating the deep pains and sense of grief already
inflicted on dear staff, students, parents and other stakeholders. “This devastating attack is a reminder of our recent colossal losses
to the unfolding insurgency despite ongoing efforts to restore peace and
stability in Borno State and northeast region. “It may be recalled that the university management had issued a
travel advisory to all staff and students to restrict their movements
and exercise vigilance as they go about their legitimate businesses
owing to the observed, escalating threats to lives and property in
recent times. “As the university community mourns the painful loss of our dear
students, I wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to the families,
friends, staff and students. “Management will continue to do everything possible to ensure the safety of all staff and students on campus”. Gambo added that the university management had been receiving
messages of sympathy and solidarity from concerned individuals and
organizations since the incident. The director thanked the federal and state governments, security
agencies, community and religious leaders, alumni, media and the
community over their sympathy to the university. It will be recalled that the insurgents had on Feb. 9, attacked Auno
village killing dozens of stranded passengers; destroyed houses,
vehicles and properties worth millions of Naira. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.