Gov. Darius Ishaku of Taraba says the Mambilla Power Project will
enliven industrial activities in the state and the country at large,
when completed. Ishaku made this assertion on Tuesday in Abuja at the inaugural  meeting of the Sensitisation Committee on the Mambilla Hydroelectric  Power Project. He said that the power plant would upon completion transmit power to
the national grid through four 500kV DC transmission lines connecting
Makrudi and one 330kV DC transmission line connecting Jalingo. The governor said that the project was of huge economic significance
to the state, saying, “it will raise the industrial base of the state. “ The project when completed will add to the portfolio of strategic
infrastructure that will perpetually stimulate growth, development and
transformation. “Not only of the state but of the whole country, the 3050 megawatts
of electricity that it promises to generate is quite huge,” he said. Ishaku commended the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government’s commitment toward implementing the project. “We are urging the minister of power to commence work without any
further delay, you have to ensure that nothing stops this project from
being completed,” he said. The governor said that the Taraba people were ready to support and
cooperate with the Federal Government to ensure the completion of the
project. Earlier, the Minister of Power, Mr Saleh Mamman reiterated the
Federal Government’s determination  to ensure the completion of the
project. Mamman said that the Federal Government’s passion for the project led
to its approval to constitute an inter-ministerial steering committee. “As a ministry, we have taken  a number of critical steps to ensure the successful take-off of the project. “We have effectively collaborated with the state government and commenced sensitisation of host communities. “The ministry has also engaged land surveyors to demarcate the project areas and commence enumeration,” he said.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA