The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has
restated the Federal Government commitment to the preservation,
protection and promotion of cultural heritage of Nigerians. The minister gave the assurance when he paid a courtesy call on the
Emir of Yauri, Dr Muhammad Abdullahi, on Saturday in Yauri Local
Government, Kebbi state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the minister was in Yauri
to attend the 2020 Annual Regatta and Cultural Festival in Yauri. The minister said that government would continue to take seriously
the issue of culture and heritage in the country, saying “that is why we
are here today. “We believe that our culture and heritage date back to several
centuries and whatever can be done to preserve, protect and promote our
culture and heritage the Federal Government is prepared to support. “That is why I am here your Royal Highness to witness the famous
Yauri Boat Regatta and cultural festival so that we can showcase to the
whole world our cultural heritage. “I have heard about the Regatta and cultural festival in Yauri, but I have never been able to attend anyone. “And I want to seize this opportunity to express my appreciation to
the Governor of Kebbi, Atiku Bagudu, who facilitated our coming here
today,” Mohammed said. Responding, the monarch described the minister as a man that always promote culture through his dressing. He expressed willingness of the Yauri Emirate Council to partner with
the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture to expand and promote
the Regatta and cultural festival. The Emir explained that the Yauri Regatta and Cultural Festival
started about 200 years ago mainly to hunt hippopotamus and other wild
animals in the river. He said that the festival usually provides opportunity for Yauri people to showcase their expertise through the boat ceremonies. He said that the festival had suffered serious setbacks since the
demise of the then Premier of Northern Region, Sir Ahmadu Bello about 50
years ago. The monarch, however, commended Bagudu for reviving and expanding the
Regatta and Cultural Festival in Yauri, saying that, gradually the
festival would be turned into a full international event. The Annual event started about 200 years ago as a display of naval
strength of Gungu people, where Gungu warriors annually attack the most
dangerous hippopotamus on the River Niger. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.