The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has warned prospective corps
members with fake credentials to stay off its orientation camps across
the country, as the scheme gets set for the 2020 Batch ‘A’ Orientation
Course. The Director-General of the scheme, Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, gave
the warning in a statement signed by Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, the Director,
Press and Public Relations of NYSC in Abuja on Sunday. Adeyemi quoted Ibrahim as saying “anyone caught, especially graduates
from universities in West African sub-region with the intent to
undermine the integrity of the NYSC mobilisation process with fake
certificates would be arrested and prosecuted.” He said that the scheme had put necessary mechanism in place to curb
the enrolment of fake graduates for the orientation course, and would
continue working diligently in that direction. Ibrahim added that the scheme had made tremendous achievements in the
fight against unqualified graduates who try to infiltrate the scheme. He noted that during the 2019 Batch ‘C’ online registration, more
than 20000 foreign-trained Nigerians uploaded their results online,
however, during the physical verification exercise, just 3,420 showed
up, having been forewarned that anyone caught with fake certificate
would be prosecuted. Ibrahim explained that the scheme recently had a meeting with
registrars and student affairs officers of some African universities and
read the riot act to them, including vice-chancellors, rectors and
provosts of corps producing institutions on the need to sanitise the
mobilisation process. He said “the NYSC alone cannot do it, we need other stakeholders to
assist us and we have started the process and l am sure things are
getting better. “I want to appeal to our youths to do the right thing and not to cut
corners in whatever they do in life, because there is always reward for
hard work.” The director general appealed to the public not to fall prey to the
antics of online scammers who promised preferential deployment, internal
posting, relocation and other services for a fee. He urged them to always visit the scheme’s website and NYSC State
Secretariats nationwide to make enquires on issues concerning the
service instead of falling victim to the fraudsters. Ibrahim said “no corps member will be deployed to any state where
there is security breach: corps members should not endanger themselves
through risky adventures and unauthorised journeys.” He also charged corps members to be security conscious at all times
and advised them to board vehicles from only authorised motor parks and
not by the roadside. He cautioned NYSC members against the temptation of free rides, especially from strangers. Ibrahim said that plans were underway to turn the Skill Acquisition
and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) centre in Gombe State into a
training institute where youths in the North-Eastern part of the country
would be trained on skill acquisition which would in turn reduce the
level of unemployment among youths in the country. He appealed to corps members to avoid the wrong use of the social
media and any action that may haunt them in future, but embrace the
programme of the scheme, designed to empower them. The NYSC boss commended the Federal Government on the recent increase
of corps members’ allowance which was captured in the 2020 budget of
the scheme, with payment effected from January 2020. “Corps members are not civil servants, they are on national service
and the commencement date for the payment of the increment of their
allowance is January 2020 which the Federal Government has started,” he
said. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.