The Commanding Officer, 72 Special Forces Battalion Makurdi, Lt. Col.
A.D. Alhassan, has been honoured by the West African College of
Freelance Journalism, for the tremendous achievements recorded under his
command. The award “Peace Award for Excellence and National Unity and
Professionalism” was presented to Alhassan recently in Makurdi, Benue,
in collaboration with the Commonwealth College of Bishops and Clergy
Councils. A statement by Bishop Abel King, Executive Director of the council,
noted the resilience and commitment of the commanding officer and the
professionalism of his troops in combating security threats in the
middle belt and the country at large. King said that the performance of other security agencies had been
enhanced through the sterling leadership skills of the commanding
officer particularly in the middle belt area of the country. “This call for recognition is to encourage and further boost the
morale of the Nigerian Army and its personnel to continue to do more to
restore and maintain the existing peace in the state and the region. “At a time that professionalism is being tested by activities of
criminals, Lt.-Col. Alhassan has lived up to the task of securing lives
and property as well as guaranteeing an enabling environment for
citizens. “This has enabled the people to live without difficulty,” he said. He said that the Nigerian Army under the leadership of Lt.-Gen Turkur
Buratai had proven itself time and again by giving responsibility to
tested hands such as demonstrated by Alhassan. He appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, not to relent in the
support given to the Nigerian Army to compliment the country’s
conventional security agencies for lasting peace in the nation. “The Nigerian Army continues to be our last line of defence at all
times and must be encouraged to give out its best for our overall good,”
he said. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.