The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar,  says the new aircraft inducted by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday  will add value to the ongoing fight against terrorism. Abubakar stated this during the commissioning of some projects and inspection of ongoing ones at NAF Base Kaduna on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that projects  inaugurated included, accommodation block, 10 officers transit  accommodation and water storage facility. The Air Chief also inspected work  on ongoing water  treatment plant, classroom blocks, five hundred sitting capacity blocks,  regiment training center, students dining hall among others. Abubakar explained that the force would use its air  assets to complement ongoing fight against terrorists to ensure security  of the country. He pointed out that out of  the 22 inducted aircraft, 10  were in Kaduna, while 32 student pilots were currently undergoing  training to boost NAF operations with a view to repositioning the force  into a highly professional service. The air chief disclosed that they had worked hard to  ensure that a number of grounded aircrafts were back into flying status,  stressing that the force was expecting to acquire additional aircrafts  including 12 Tucano from the United States. He noted that apart from having the right structure and  platforms to restructure the force into a professional service, the  force had provided adequate training to personnel and enhanced their  welfare for effective performance. “The regiment training center has become a center of  excellence because acquiring aircraft without a force protection  capability might not translate into much, and that is why we have given  regiment training topmost priority. “I am very excited that we have made substantial  progress in terms of training regiment personnel into force protection  elements and special forces,” he said. Abubakar said that special forces had been deployed to  some parts of the country to ensure security, adding that 250  ere in  Zamfara and about 300 in Benue. Earlier, Air Officer Commanding Ground Training Command,  AVM Idi Amin said the current leadership of the force had  ensured  conducive atmosphere for the training and welfare of personnel of the  force. He assured that the personnel would rededicate  themselves to duty to justify their mandate toward meeting up with   current demands of security challenges. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.