(NAN) The Speaker of the Lagos House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru  Obasa, has urged residents of the state to remain calm and vigilant,  following the detection of the first case of Coronavirus brought in by  an Italian. Obasa, also the Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State
Legislatures in Nigeria, made the appeal in a statement issued in Lagos
on Friday. The speaker said there was no need for residents to panic over the
incident, because the state government had always been proactive in
relation to safety of lives. He said: “Prior to the confirmation of the first case of Coronavirus
in Lagos, the state government had kept its antennae alert and had
constantly enlightened the people concerning the health concern. “Even though it is the most populous city in the country, Lagos state
has always anticipated and taken steps ahead of events by equipping its
medical facilities. “The state government is also making sure that the disease control
centres are up-to-date with issues related to their field. This is why
residents of the state should remain calm at this time. “I can assure you that the executive arm of government is not relaxed
and will continue with its concerted efforts to nip this concern in the
bud. “Be assured also that the legislative arm of the state government
will do all within its powers to help the executive curtail the ailment,
since, as fortune would have it, we only have one recorded case.” Obasa said the federal and the state governments had explained that
the ailment only causes mild illnesses that were easily treated and
could only be severe if there were underlying chronic health challenges. The speaker urged the residents to support the state government to
achieve its set goals by adhering to every instruction announced by the
authorities. “We are told to always wash our hands, stay a distance from those who
are sneezing and coughing as well as other such simple instructions. “I am also calling for intensified inspection to commence at the
nation’s sea and airports, and residents should promptly report
suspected cases. “On our part, the House will soon meet over the development,” he said. Obasa reminded Nigerians to call the federal government’s line:
0800-970000-10 and appealed to Lagosians to call the state’s helplines:
08023169485 or 08033565529 or 08052817243 where cases are suspected.
(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA