The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), says it will embark on a
nationwide education and awareness campaign to discourage the
stigmatisation of workers and Nigerians, who are COVID-19 victims. Mr Ayuba Wabba, NLC President, who disclosed this in a statement on
Tuesday in Abuja, said this was necessary in order to avoid workplace
infraction and injustice. According to him, we are aware of the backlash of COVID-19
stigmatisation, the NLC will embark on a nationwide education and
awareness campaign to discourage the stigmatisation of workers and
vitims of COVID-19. “We urge every Nigerian to treat COVID-19 survivors as heroes and
heroines. Such noble gesture would encourage infected cases to boldly
come forward knowing that they would not be stigmatized. “This kind of response is crucial in preventing a second wave of
COVID-19  in Nigeria. We need all hands to be on deck in this regard, ”
he said. Wabba said that efforts at COVID-19 testing, contact tracing, public
fumigation, environmental sanitation and robust public health education
should be expanded and intensified. He added that, in the course of the gradual relaxation of the
lockdown, it is important that individual citizens and corporate
organisations have both personal and collective responsibility to adhere
to all health guidelines. “We call on the leadership of our industrial unions and the state
councils to continue working with the different cadres of workers’
leadership in the states and unions to ensure that health and safety
facilities and guidelines are followed. “Such as running water, soaps, hand sanitizers, use of protective
masks and social distancing are made available and enforced at different
workplaces. “We encourage workers not to hesitate to contact the National
Secretariat of NLC in the event of any COVID-19 related work place
infraction, injustice, negligence and gender-based discrimination,
”Wabba added. He however, added that in spite of the challenge posed by the
COVID-19 pandemic, we are deeply enamored by the bravery and
resourcefulness of our health care professionals,  who have put their
lives on the line to contain the spread of the virus. “In spite of the relative deficit of material resources at their
disposal, they have arguably recorded some of the best recovery rates in
the world. “We are immensely proud of the love, faith, courage, and sacrifice
demonstrated by our frontline heroes and heroines who have certainly
given more than the demand of the call of duty. “Our gallant frontline workers have served and continue to serve as
the resolute buffer between COVID-19 and mass infections cum deaths. “We will forever be in the debt of thousands of our courageous
healthcare workers, transport workers, utility employees, journalists
and workers in the informal sector who have continued to show up at
their duty posts despite the stare of death, dearth of working tools and
paucity of gratitude. “We condole with the families of workers who have paid the supreme
sacrifice in the fight against COVID-19. We assure you that their
labours will not be in vain,” he said. The NLC president commended the Federal Government for the insurance
cover and enhanced incentives provided for frontline health workers,
while urging states to do same.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA