The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), has  begun a scientific inquiry to identify the cause of the recent shoals  of dead fishes washed ashore along the Niger Delta coastline. Mr Philp Kyanet, Head, Corporate Communications, NIMASA, on behalf of
Director-General, Dr. Bashir Jimoh, made this known in a statement on
Monday in Port Harcourt. He stated that the investigation would be conducted in Akwa Ibom,
Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, and Rivers, and other places within the
region. The Agency also warned the general public, especially the fisherfolk
in the affected areas, about the dangers of consuming or selling the
dead fish to unsuspecting members of the public. Jimoh said: “ We are working with relevant scientific experts to
isolate the cause of the abnormal issue of dead fish along the Niger
Delta coastline. “We want to identify the cause and establish what can be done to
alleviate the adverse effect of this occurrence on the people and the
marine environment in the affected areas. “While we are working to decipher and mitigate this strange incident,
we appeal to locals in the affected communities and those who trade in
aquatic animals to avoid consumption and sale of the dead fish.’’ According  to him, such acts might carry criminal liabilities,
especially with regard to deliberate sale of the dead fish to the
public. “The tripodal investigation would involve an examination of the dead fish as well as water and sediment analyses,’’ Jimoh added. NIMASA has the mandate to regulate and protect the country’s marine
environment as provided for in the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 and in
compliance with the International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 (MARPOL
1973/78), and other relevant instruments aimed at protecting the
maritime domain. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA