(NAN) The Nigerian Navy (NN) has said it rescued 18 crew members on  board a Chinese vessel, MV HAILUFANG II, from pirates’ attack. This is contained in a statement  signed by Commodore Ibrahim
Shettima, the Commander Nigeria Navy Ship (NNS) BEECROFT on Monday. Shettima said that the crew members were rescued on Thursday (May 15). He said that the rescued crew members, comprising Chinese, Ghanaians
and Ivorians, were attacked by pirates off the coast of Cote d’Ivoire. ” I am here to make a brief on the rescue efforts of the Nigerian
Navy in a recent pirate attack within the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). ” On May 15, a Chinese vessel, MV HAILUFANG II, was attacked by pirates off the coast of Cote d’Ivoire. “The pirates took control of the vessel and directed the vessel toward Nigerian waters. “The vessel had 18 crew members, comprising Chinese, Ghanaians and Ivorians,” he said. Shettima said that the Nigerian Navy was alerted of the attack,
adding that it immediately dispatched the NNS NGURU to intercept the
vessel. “On interception of the vessel at about 140nm south of Lagos Fairway
Buoy, the pirates refused to comply with the orders of the Navy Ship. “Hence, the NN had to conduct an opposed boarding of the vessel. “All ships crew were safely rescued, while the 10 pirates were arrested,” he said. The commodore noted that the last five known or documented pirates’
attacks were outside Nigerian waters, which the NN responded in the
interest of regional security. “This is aptly captured in the NN Total Spectrum Maritime Strategy,
which covers Nigeria’s outermost maritime area of interest, encompassing
the entire West African waters and the GoG. ” This underscores the need for increased regional cooperation in
terms of information sharing and further deepening of response
capability. ” For instance, this rescue effort was bolstered by additional intel
received from the Beninous Navy during the operation,” he said. The NN also warned criminals within the GoG to desist from their acts. “The NN has the capability and will power to deal with such perpetrators,” he said. Shettima said the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ete Ibas, 
was committed to ensuring maritime security within Nigeria’s maritime
space and the Gulf of Guinea. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA