Some residents of Maiduguri have  commended the Borno Government for embarking on ward to ward  distribution of palliatives in the city.  A cross section of the residents who spoke to the News Agency of  Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday, said that the development was commendable and  would go a long way in cushioning the hardship faced by beneficiaries in  the cause of the COVID-19 lockdown in the state. Nura Salisu, a former councillor of Hausari ward in Maiduguri
Metropolitan Council, said the criteria being used to distribute the
palliatives to ensure it gets to the needy, were satisfactory. “Governor Zulum deserved commendation by his constant monitoring and
participating in the distribution of the palliatives to ensure that the
right thing is done,” Salisu said. Two of the residents, Falmata Mustafa and Sani Musa of Gwange ward
also lauded the gesture and called for another opportunity for those who
missed out in the list of beneficiaries to be considered. Also, Abubakar Ibrahim of Mairi ward said that the palliatives had
arrived to the ward but was yet to be distributed to beneficiaries. “We are excited about the arrival of the items which comprised grains
and cooking oil , among others, stock piled at Maimusari primary
school. “We don’t know when they will start sharing just as they did in other
wards but we want to say thank you Gov. Zulum, for matching your word
with action,” Ibrahim said. Ibrahim said that though his name was not in the list of
beneficiaries, he had no issue with that as far as those listed were
truly the poorest of the poor as explained by the palliative committee. Also speaking, the state Chairman of Network of Civil Society
Organisations in Borno (NECSOB), Amb. Ahmed Shehu, lauded the
commencement of the distribution of palliatives to the needy by
government and stressed the need to expedite action on the exercise. Shehu said NECSOB had a situation room monitoring the lockdown, and
that it had received some complaints and suggestions on the distribution
of the palliatives, which it forwarded to the government for necessary
action to improve the exercise. On her part, Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, the Chairperson of the State
Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) who doubled as the Secretary of the
State Palliative Committee, said about 23,000 households in Maiduguri
metropolis had benefitted from the gesture  to cushion the effect of the
lockdown. “Our formula for the distribution of the palliatives is 10 per cent
to persons with disabilities, 20 per cent to the elderly, 20 per cent to
widows and the remaining 50 per cent to poorest of the poor,’’ Kolo
said. While assuring that they would look into complaints based on merit
regarding the sharing of the palliatives, Kolo said the committee had so
far covered nine wards in Maiduguri metropolis. (NAN) 