An Abuja-based Educational and Charity Organisation, Nurul Yaqeen
Islamic Foundation in collaboration with Muslim women, has donated
clothes and food items to 150 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the
FCT. Director of the foundation, Imam Yahya Al-Yolawi, while presenting
the items at Durumi IDPs camp, on Sunday, said the donation would
improve the living condition of IDPs in the month of Ramadan and during
sallah celebrations. Al-Yolawi used the occasion to appeal to the conscious of wealthy
Nigerians, especially the residents of FCT to extend relief assistance
to IDPs and other less privilege groups in the territory. The cleric also called on corporate organisations and government to
introduce skills acquisition training programme for the displaced
persons and establish schools for their children and mobile clinic for
pregnant and nursing mothers. “I am deeply touched with the condition we found this people as if they are not human beings or part of the society. “But I am very optimistic that if corporate organisations, well
meaning Nigerians and government decides to intervene the living
condition of IDPs in this camp will improve and the story will change. “When there is helping hands and assisting the poor and needy, most
of the security challenges bedevilling our country will reduce
drastically,” Al-Yolawi said. He reiterated the determination and commitment of the foundation to
collaborate with individuals and organisations that are ready to make
life easier for the needy and poorest of the poor. Al-Yolawi tasked Islamic clerics to preach in words and in action,
saying “let’s preach in given out and let match the propagation of
ideals of Islam with extending hands of assistance to the poor.” Earlier, Mrs Rabi’a Umar, leader of the Muslim Women, said the idea
to assist the IDPs was borne out of concern to feed the less privilege
during the month of Ramadan. “The whole idea came when the Federal Government imposed lockdown
before the beginning of Ramadan so we decided to gather food items
together since we cannot cook it and share to the people during the time
of breaking of fast. “We earlier visited an IDPs camp at Kabusa District and donated used
clothes and foods items to them and after that many people contributed
more cloths and food items. “We decided to collaborate with the Nurul Yaqeen Islamic Foundation
to reach out to the IDPs camp at Durumi Area I,” she explained. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.