The Nigerian Red Cross Society (NRCS), has expressed deep  commiserations with the global community, and Nigeria in particular,  over the loss of lives to the dreaded coronavirus (COVID-19). Prof. Peter Katchy, Chairman, Anambra branch of NRCS, extended the
association’s solidarity with the global community, while delivering the
2020 Red Cross Day celebration message on Friday, in Awka. Katchy described COVID-19 as a massive holocaust which had resulted
in terrible loss of lives globally, and prayed for the end of the
pandemic so that people could regain their freedom. He reiterated the call for people to observe all the prevention
protocols to stay safe, noting that it remained the best way of fighting
the pandemic. According to him, most people who become infected experience mild
illnesses and recover, but for others however, it can be very severe. “So, take care of your health and protect others by washing your
hands frequently with water and soap, rub with alcohol-based sanitiser,
maintain physical distance of not less than one metre from others. “Avoid touching the eyes, nose and mouth; and seek medical care if you have fever and difficulty in breathing,’’ he said. Katchy called on federal and state governments to begin to design
practicable and holistic policies that would lead to speedy recovery of
the country’s economy in the post pandemic era. He said it was imperative to focus on health, economy, agriculture,
labour, social development and security, which would ensure that no one
or group was left behind. The movement also called for the repair of Nigeria’s refineries to
check the enormous economic losses associated with importation of
refined petroleum products and subsidy payments. Katchy urged well-meaning Nigerians to donate generously by providing
palliatives to the needy because posterity would adjudge them `heroes
of the fight’. (NAN)  Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA