Niger government has approved over N1 billion for the dualisation of  2.4 kilometres Tunga roundabout to Imani junction road in Minna. Alhaji Ibrahim Panti, the state Commissioner for Works, disclosed
during a news conference that Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger gave the
approval during the Executive Council meeting in Minna on Thursday. He explained that the contract had been awarded to Sojet Nigeria
Limited, adding that the duration for the construction of the
dualisation was 18 months. Panti said that the essence was to decongest traffic and reduce incidence of accidents on the road. He disclosed that the council also approved that six roads should be
added to the ongoing road construction projects in Kontagora, adding
that over N1 billion was earmarked for the project. Also, Alhaji Mohammed Idris, the state Commissioner for Information,
disclosed that the council also constitute a committee for a robust and
strategic planning of the state agriculture sector that would provide a
platform for agriculture produce in the state. He said members of the committee include: Alhaji Ahmed Matane, who
would serve as the chairman, Alhaji Haliru Jikantoro, Commissioner for
Agriculture and Rural Development and Dr Mustapha Jibril, Commissioner
for Investment. Idris said that the council also agreed to provide additional
firefighting equipment in Kutigi, Rijau and Sabon-Wuse for quick
response to fire incidents in the areas. He disclosed that the council mandated the state Ministry of Works to
come up with a Bill of Quantities for a complete renovation of the
state secretariat to provide conducive environment and office
accommodation for civil servants. The commissioner added that the council also approved a review of
procurement nature of advertisements under open competitiveness bidding
in the state. He explained that the review entails that before any contract is
awarded, it must go through procurement board, advertisement and
bidding. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA