The Jamma’are
Development Forum (JDF), have expressed appreciation to the Federal
Government for the siting of a Federal College of Education (FCE) in the
community. Dr Shuaibu Musa, Chairman, Education Committee of the forum,  made the commendation at a press conference on Saturday in Bauchi. He said the forum believed that the establishment of FCE Jama’are, would go a long way in providing opportunities for qualitative education. He said that Prsident Muhammad Buhari had planted a tree for human progress and development in the community. “On April 16,  an ever-growing tree of human progress and development was  planted by President Muhammadu Buhari. “By approving the establishment of six new Federal Colleges of Education, one in each geopolitical zone. “With that of the North East located
at Jama’are in Jama’are Local Government Area of Bauchi State, to
address the emergency education needs of the country,” he said. Musa said the forum appreciated  the
President for such a rare privilege for the people of Jama’are in
particular and Bauchi State in general, with this growth-enhancing
dividend of democracy. “The support, cooperation and
understanding of the Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, is also
noted, appreciated and will continually be cherished,” he said. He said the forum acknowledged and
appreciated the enduring and holistic efforts of the Minister of
Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, “For not only recommending the siting
of one of the  six new Federal Colleges of Education at Jama’are but
 also the patriotic zeal with which challenges of the Education Sector
are being managed nationally,” he said. The forum called on the Federal
Government to ensure that suitably qualified leadership, governing body
and principal officers of the institution are appointed for take-off. He reiterated the forum’s commitment to support all stakeholders in ensuring the proper take-off and continued growth and development of the college  for the benefit of humanity. Musa appealed for the support and
cooperation of the Bauchi State Government and all relevant stakeholders
to enable a smooth take-off of the institution. According to him, the forum is a non-partisan socio-cultural organisation for all indigenes of the Jama’are Emirate and Local Government Area.(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.