The trial of the  immediate past Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Winifred  Oyo-Ita, was on Wednesday stalled due to the absence of the lawyer to  the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mohammed Abubakar. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the EFCC had, on  March 23, charged Oyo-Ita and eight with 18-counts of money laundering  to the tune of N570 million. Those arraigned  alongside the former HOS were Frontline Ace Global Services Limited;  Asanaya Projects Limited; Garba Umar and his companies: Slopes  International Limited; Good Deal Investments Limited; Ubong Okon Effiok  and his own company, U & U Global Services Limited and Prince Mega  Logistics Limited. The defendants were  accused of fraud in relation to duty tour allowances (DTA); estacode;  conference fees fraud and receiving kickbacks on contracts. According to the  anti-corruption agency, investigations revealed that Oyo-Ita, in her  roles in the civil service as director, permanent secretary and head of  service, used her companies as well as Effiok’s and Umar’s companies as  fronts to receive kickbacks from contractors of various ministries and  parastatal agencies she worked. However, at the resumed hearing on Wednesday, Abubakar, the prosecution counsel, was not in court. Oyo-Ita’s Counsel, Paul Erokoro, told Justice Taiwo Taiwo he did not know the reason for Abubakar’s absence. Erokoro then urged the court to grant an adjournment. “Since we do not know  why they are not here, we ask for a fairly long adjournment to give the  prosecution time subject to the court’s convenience. “We also ask that they be issued hearing notices,” he said. Lawyers, who  represented the other defendants, aligned themselves with the  submissions of Erokoro and did not object to the application for an  adjournment. Justice Taiwo, in his ruling, said he took judicial notice of the prosecutor’s absence. He also agreed to  grant a long adjournment since the matter “is not classified urgent and  time bound” and to give the prosecutor time to make himself available. The judge, therefore,  adjourned the case until July 8 and ordered that a hearing notice  should be served on the prosecution. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.