The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie
Ehanire, on Friday said the epidemic situation in Kano had stabilised,
attributing this to the good relationship between the visiting Federal
task team and Kano State Task force on COVID-19. Ehanire said this at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 daily press briefing in Abuja He said that “one manifestation of this
being the high number of new cases recorded daily from the fact that all
labs in Kano are now functioning and clearing the sample backlog, with
over 350 tests done daily.” He said that the state government had been doing well in opening up more treatment and isolation centres. Ehinare said that a strategy document of
National Primary Healthcare Development Agency was being developed and
repurposed for application to Kano. He added that it was also applicable to
similar high density, high burden metropolis such as Lagos to respond
more specifically to the challenges of COVID-19 tracing, tracking,
testing, isolation and treatment in congested communities. The minister said that if implemented, it could go a long way in addressing many challenges looming before the country. According to him, an innovation of the
FMoH Kano task team is the training of journalists on Saturday, aimed at
ensuring reporters are in a better position to interpret COVID-19
related data and information. He added that it would also help them to learn to take necessary infection prevention measures. Ehinare commended Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano for providing necessary support for the federal team to function. The minister stated that a Federal
Ministry of Health team had been assembled to proceed to Sokoto and
Borno on fact finding and support missions to engage with state
authorities and determine material and technical needs. He said that the most immediate
probability is the prioritisation of these states for the deployment of
repurposed Gene-Xpert machines as soon as it started to receive the
cartridges in a few weeks to bring speed to testing. In his address, Director-General of
Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, spoke on the
“New Normal” Masks, Hygiene and Distancing. Ihekweazu  highlighted the need for the proper use of face masks in limiting spread of COVID-19. “Face masks are an additional layer of protection and should never be reused or shared with others,” he said. Meanwhile, National Coordinator, PTF, Dr
Sani Aliyu, while speaking on the need to avoid stigmatising patients,
said stigmatization undermines every effort to contain and defeat the
pandemic. Aliyu said that infected persons should not be stigmatized. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN), reports that 193 new cases were confirmed on May 14 in 15 states. The states were Lagos (58), Kano (46), Jigawa (35), Yobe (12), FCT (9), Ogun (7), Plateau (5), Gombe (5)  Imo (4), Edo (3), Kwara (3), Borno (3), Bauchi (1), Nasarawa (1) and  Ondo (1). This brought the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to 5,162 in 34 states and the FCT. Till date, 1180 patients have been treated and discharged from hospital care and 167 deaths have sadly been recorded. The case gender ratio remains about 70
per cent to 30 percent for men and women, respectively, while case
fatality hovers around 3 percent. A steady rise in these figures is what we envisage with more diligent testing, treatment, isolation and tracing. Ability and capacity to keep up and align
these activities with each other will determine the course of events as
time goes on. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.