END OF RAMADAN 1441 AH (2020G) FAST AND ‘IDUL-FITR CELEBRATIONS The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), under the leadership of its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alh. Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, CFR, mni, felicitates with the entire Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and all over the world on the 1441 AH Ramadan Fast. The Council prays that the Almighty Allah grant us the opportunity to witness more of it on earth. Amin. Following the advice of the National Moon Sighting Committee (NMSC), Friday, 22nd May, 2020(G) which is equivalent to 29th Ramadan, 1441 AH is the first day to look for the Crescent of Shawwal, 1441 AH. However, on that day, the moon will set few minutes before the sun which makes the sighting of the crescent practically impossible. Nonetheless, the President-General, in compliance with the Sunnah of the Prophet (SAW), enjoins the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to search for the crescent of Shawwal 1441 AH immediately after sunset on Friday, 22nd May, 2020 equivalent to 29th Ramadan, 1441 AH. Muslims all over the country are hereby enjoined to be on the lookout for the announcement by His Eminence, the President-General of NSCIA, on the termination of this year’s Ramadan fast… read more : https://nscia.com.ng/index.php/news-room/192-end-of-ramadan-1441-ah-2020g-fast-and-idul-fitr-celebrations In addition to established and traditional Islamic leaders in each locality, members of the National Moon Sighting Committee who can be contacted to report credible positive sighting of the Shawwal crescent are as follows: While reminding the Ummah of the necessity of paying Zakatul-Fitriwith the intention of lifting the hearts of the indigent members of the community, the Council urges all to ensure its delivery to the appropriate recipients (i.e. the poor) and guard against its diversion by any agent or intermediary. All media houses in the country are requested to kindly publicise the awaited announcement by His Eminence, the President-General of NSCIA and Sultan of Sokoto. ‘Id Mubarak in advance! Prof. Salisu Shehu Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.