The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) on Wednesday said that
its Enforcement Team on COVID-19 Waterways Operational Guidelines had
begun routine patrols and given warnings to erring boat operators. Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, General Manager of LASWA and Leader of the  Enforcement Team, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that  the team would not hesitate to sanction erring operators. According to Emmanuel, all stakeholders on the  state waterways have been duly informed of the new guidelines. He said that the patrol was to ensure strict adherence to water
transport guidelines following gradual ease of the COVID-19-induced 
lockdown of Lagos State. “The enforcement team on Tuesday commenced  state-wide inspection of
commercial ferry operations with an unscheduled visit to some jetties in
Apapa to monitor compliance by commercial ferry operators and other
waterway users. “The enforcement team observed substantial compliance with the government directives. “Notwithstanding, there were few operators who violated the 60%
carrying capacity, and they were warned. If repeated, they  will be
sanctioned accordingly,”he said. Emmanuel added that ferry passengers were  advised to always wear
face mask and ensure physical distancing among themselves in order to
avoid possible contact with an infected person. According to him, the jetties where ferry operations were monitored
by the team include Temidire-Ajegunle and Liverpool jetty in Apapa. The LASWA boss said that waterways patrol and the enforcement would continue. “The authority will continue to monitor all activities on the inland
waterways; more important is adherence to water transport guidelines
aimed at preventing the spread of coronavirus,” he said. He called on all stakeholders to support government’s efforts to
reduce novel coronavirus spread in Lagos  and the entire Nigeria. NAN reports that almost 3,000 people have been infected by the virus in Nigeria and 98 killed. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA