Dr Saeed Muhammad, member, Kaduna State Committee on COVID-19, has  called on northern leaders to enforce the use of face masks in the zone  to contain the spread of coronavirus. Muhammad made the call in an interview with newsmen on Friday in Kaduna. He added that face masks had been identified as one of the most significant measures to contain the spread of the virus. According to him, the northern zone must be very cautious about the  rising cases of the pandemic being reported daily, especially from the  axis. He noted that the region was already heavily populated, with its  nutritional status suffering backwardness and health facilities grossly  insufficient. “The equipment and the personnel in the facilities are not enough to  cater for the high population, hence the need to take extra preventive  measures against the spread of the pandemic,” he added. Muhammad urged people to be realistic with the situation and use face  masks, no matter the inconveniences it might cause them, especially  those with low immune systems and those suffering from other health  complications. “With the high records daily reported within the communities, the very  possible way of containing the virus in the North is in the use of face  masks. “People should wear face masks that do not compress their nose so that they do not experience difficulties in breathing. “When an infected person comes in close contact with the non-infected  ones who are not wearing face masks and he coughs or sneezes, the virus  has the potential of staying about 45 minutes in the air. “The tendency of inhaling the virus by other people is high,” he said. Muhammad put the possibility of getting infected by the virus, if not  wearing face mask at 70 percent, with those wearing face masks having  just 1.5 percent chances of getting infected. “Eighty percent of the many infected with the virus get better due to their strong immune systems. “Only about 20 percent of those infected become very sick due to the other ailments they suffer from,” he stressed. On the activities committee, Muhammad said that the centers for testing  coronavirus had been increased to three in Kaduna, the state capital. “There is one at ABUTH (Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital), one  in the metropolis and the third is being put up at Yusuf Dantsoho  Hospital,” he said. According to him, the committee meets on daily basis with other  sub-committees to report the activities and challenges, and make  recommendations on possible ways of curbing the pandemic in the state. “It is one of these recommendations that informed Gov. Nasir El-Rufai’s  decision to issue directive on compulsory use of face masks by residents  to contain the spread of the virus in the state,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA