The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) has again warned  the public to avoid erecting structures or trading under the power line  right-of-way. The Head of Corporate Communications of EEDC, Mr Emeka Eze, gave the
warning in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) in Awka on Tuesday. Eze’s warning followed the electrocution of Mrs Patience Ugbana, 55,
and her 10-year-old granddaughter, Adaeze Ugbana, when a high tension
wire fell on their shop in Nnewi, Anambra, on May 18. He however said that the management of the company had paid a
condolence visit to the family of the deceased, noting that the deaths
were unfortunate. The spokesman for EEDC blamed the deaths on obstruction of power line right-of-way by the victims. He said that the incident would not have occurred if the residents
had adhered to the company’s earlier warnings and sensitisation. “On the incident that occured in Anambra, the victim put up makeshift
shop made of metallic container directly under the high tension line,
which was why the victims were caught up and electrocuted. “The fact is that we wouldn’t have lost these lives if they were not under the power line”, Ezeh said. The EEDC spokesman described power line right-of-way as the mapped
out corridor for distribution and transmission of electricity. He reiterated that precautionary safety measures and mandatory clearance levels must be observed by the public. He explained the various power lines and their respective clearance levels that should be maintained. ”There should be 11 meters observance on 11KV and 33KV lines (that is
5.5 meters on both sides), while 30 meters is observed on 132 KV line
(that is 15 meters on both sides). ”Also, 50 meters should be observed on 330KV line (that is 25 meters on both sides),” Eze noted. He warned that in situations where electricity lines sagged or
snapped and the specified clearance level was not observed, lives of
people within the area would be exposed to possible electrocution. He said the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA)
had directed Distribution Companies (DISCOs) to disconnect power supply
to all structures, buildings and premises that were in violation of the
power line right-of-way. The EEDC’s head of corporate communications said that the company had
since begun disconnection of erring properties within its network. ”EEDC is working in full liaison with relevant government agencies to ensure the directive is carried out effectively. “We frown at indiscriminate manner structures are erected within
electricity right-of-way and warn customers to desist from the hazardous
behaviour. “We have been disconnecting properties identified to be in violation,
and working closely with relevant government agencies; some of these
structures have been demolished”, he said. He added that EEDC had applied various communication media in  sensitising customers on the need to be safety conscious by observing  the clearance levels. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.