The Buhari  Media Organisation (BMO) has lauded the Executive Order  10, signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying it would engender  better governance and guarantee true independence for states judiciary  and legislature. BMO Chairman, Mr Niyi Akinsiju,  in a statement in Abuja on Sunday,  described the order as the long needed game-changer that would bring to  effect, the desire for truly independent and accountable judiciary and  legislature at the state levels. “The Executive Order 10 signed by Buhari is a masterstroke that will   engender better governance, especially at the state levels, guaranteeing  true independence of state judiciary and legislature. “With this order,  Nigerians will see a renewed improvement in the  delivery of good governance at the state level,” the BMO chairman said. He said that the states play a critical role in the delivery of governance to the Nigerian people. “They are closer to the people and expectedly should have a better understanding of their problems and needs. “This is why it is critical that the institutions closest to the people  receive the best support for them to carry out their duties and  independence to ensure that the delivery of their duties is not tainted  by selfish interests. “Through the Implementation of Financial Autonomy of State Legislature  and Judiciary Order 2020, Buhari has put in place,  the legal instrument  to enforce  that funds belonging to state legislatures and judiciaries  get to them. “We can now be  assured that state judiciary will  not be afraid of any  threats to its fundings by state executive who may want them to pander  to itscbiddings,” Akinsiju said. According to him,  this applies as well to the state legislature. “The outcome we can expect from this is strong institutions delivering  good governance and justice at the middle tier of government without  fear or favour. “The order will ensure that the needed funds for these institutions  will  be available and accessible for their democratic business and not  end up being treated as personal monies of state executives or as  second-line items. “It ensures that the payment of monies due to state legislature and  judiciary are matters of priority, they are first-line items and must be  immediately paid to the legislature and judiciary,” he said. He added that the institutions would be the first choice for payments. “A state that fails to release these funds will have the funds
deducted from source by Federal Accounts Allocations Committee, from the
money to be allocated to the state. “The executive order also ensures that there is targeted and strategic budgeting for state judiciary and state legislature. “A significant item in the Executive Order is the Special
Extraordinary Capital Allocations for the judiciary which is an
allocation dedicated to the undertaking of capital development projects
by the stare judiciary. “With this fund, more complexes for state judiciary will  be built and those that are dilapidated will be renovated. “Nigeria’s judiciary has for many years suffered an infrastructure
problem, especially at the state level – that is about to become
history, thanks to Executive Order 10 signed by President Muhammadu
Buhari,” he said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.