The Environmental Health Officers Association (EHOAN), Lagos State
Chapter, has observed that a crowded Automated Teller Machine (ATM)
constituted a veritable source of community transmission of the
coronavirus disease. Mr Taiwo Awonuga, the EHOAN Lagos chapter President, made the
observation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Lagos on Friday. Awonuga was reacting to findings that social distancing was being jettisoned at many ATM points. He said that it was the obligations of banks to ensure their customers obey all safety guidelines. Awonuga decried the exponential rise in the number of infected persons in the country. He, therefore, tasked banks to streamline their services to be in
tandem with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control’s (NCDC) social
distancing recommendation to check personal transmission of the disease. “The rat-race going on in many ATM outlets calls for decreeing
approach by all to discourage the high level of infection through in
such crowded outlets. “People line up in very close contact in the sun amidst sweat and droppings from their bodies. “It calls for a change in attitude from banks and customers too, if
we must halt community spread of the coronavirus, especially in the
suburb where ATM are few but with dense population. “The confusion at ATM points are a common sight in the country
because people need their money to cater for daily needs in that zeal to
get cash to lose their guard and get infected by vectors around them,’’
he said. The environment health officer, who advised people to be safety
conscious in public, called on the Presidential Taskforce (PTF) on the
management of the coronavirus, to compel banks to open up more cash
dispensary outlets to forestall people getting infected at crowded ATMs NAN reports that more than 5,000 Nigerians have been infected with
the virus within two months, as health authorities are battling with
limited resources to bring the crisis under control. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.