Governor of Niger State and Chairman North Central Governors’  Forum, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has congratulated the Muslim Ummah on the successful completion of the 1441 AH Ramadan Fast as they observe Eid-il-Fitr. Governor Sani Bello expressed optimism that the difficulties experienced following the outbreak of Coronavirus will soon be history. He said the Muslim Faithfull have gone through one of the most rigorous Islamic obligations of one month fast and prayers as well as other forms of  Worship and urged all believers to imbibe  the lessons learnt during the Ramadan period through sacrifices, almsgiving to the needy, continuous exhibition of piety as well as Charity to one another. He said the celebration is coming at a time that the world has been thrown into confusion with the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic which he says will soon be over. The governor however called on philanthropists and those that have been blessed by Almighty Allah to be their brothers’  keeper by assisting the less privileged in their community. As he prayed for Allah’s blessing and protection on the people, he urged Muslim faithful to use the period to pray for an end to pandemic, while appealing that the Sallah Celebration should be observed without much fanfare to complement government’s efforts aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19. The Governor admonished the people to observe all the precautionary measures as outlined by the health professionals and the government including personal hygiene, social distancing, use of face mask and hand-washing especially at public gatherings. He called on all traditional and religious leaders to be security conscious and report any strange or suspicious movement as some parts of the State are under security threat of banditry, cattle rustling, kidnapping and other forms of criminality. He assured that the situation will soon return to normalcy as the government is not resting on its oars in the fight against the criminal elements. Governor Sani Bello wishes all citizens of the State a Happy Sallah celebration…l Mary Noel-Berje,  Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Niger State. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA