Nigeria has a total of 112
treatment and isolation centres with 5,324 beds as part of the country’s
response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Minster of State for Health Sen. Olorunnimbe Mamora, made this known during the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 daily press briefing on Wednesday in Abuja. “At present, we have a total of 112 treatment and isolation centres in all the 36 states and FCT with 5,324 beds. “While only five states including the FCT
have at least 300 beds as prescribed for isolation and treatment, 21
states have less than 100 bed spaces. “As the number of confirmed cases
increases, there is an urgent need to expand our treatment centres
across the country,” the minister said. Mamora called on state governors and
philanthropists to take active and deliberate steps to scale up the
number of beds for isolation and treatment of confirmed cases in their
states. The minister said that this became
necessary as the country prepared to move into the next phase of the
response, including the easing of the lockdown. He added that the ministry had conducted a
high level technical session on strategic outputs of Mid-Action Review
(MAR) and identified priority activities for the next phase of the
response. “In addition, we have commenced
development of sector specific advisories on re-opening. Training of
health workers on case management is ongoing in more states,” he added. He announced that there were global efforts to find a cure for the disease and Nigeria was part of this  effort. “We have received a few proposals for
local remedies for the disease and these have been forwarded to the
relevant agencies for evaluation. “For a preparation to be approved for use
in Nigeria, it must be subjected to safety, toxicological and efficacy
tests as well as clinical trials,” he said. Mamora noted that government would support every genuine efforts aimed at finding a local solution to the pandemic. Therefore, non pharmaceutical preventive approach is still our best strategy, the minister said. In his address,  the PTF National Coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu, said that states were responsible for case management in the fight against COVID-19 the country. Aliyu said that the Nigeria Center for
Disease Control(NCDC) was also leading the efforts in designing and
implementing national testing strategies to scale-up testing in Nigeria. The coordinator said that Nigerians could contact the PTF via email: ptfcovid19@osgf.org.ng. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN), reports
that Nigeria have recorded a total of 8,344 confirmed cases in 34 states
and FCT out of which 2,385 have been successfully treated and
discharged. Unfortunately the country have recorded 249 deaths. While most of those who died were
associated with comorbidities, three out of four of those discharged
were without comorbidities. This is consistent with the fact that
risks are higher for those with other illnesses such as hypertension,
diabetes and other chronic non-communicable diseases. There is general reduction in mortality  trend and continuous improvement in recoveries as shown in discharges  compared to the increase in number of confirmed cases. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.