Kaduna State University has announced a mini research grant for a  multidisciplinary research on Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its  implication on implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in  the state. The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Muhammad Tanko made the
announcement through a call for proposal, tagged, “Vice-Chancellor Mini
Research Fund”, obtained by the News Agency of Nigerian (NAN) in Kaduna
on Saturday. Tanko explained that the research fund, in collaboration with ICT
University, Louisiana, USA, would provide N150,000 grant to 20 scholars
to undertake the research. He said that the theme of the research is tagged: “The fight against
COVID-19 and Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):
Insight from Kaduna State, Nigeria.” According to him, the grant will fund studies that generate fresh
insights and improve on extant knowledge on COVID-19 and its impact on
implementation of SDGs in the state. “The focus is to investigate the science behind COVID-19, uncover its
societal dynamics and its impact on social, educational, economic and
environmental development in the state. “The ultimate objective is to generate knowledge for improving the
health and well-being of the people through implementation of the SDGs
in the face of COVID-19. “It is also to generate evidences through 20 multidisciplinary
researches that will improve the design of services for implementation
of SDGs,” he said. He added that the move would strengthen the capacity of scholars in
KASU to conduct multidisciplinary research for evidence-based policy and
policy implementation aimed at improving the implementation of SDGs. He added that the fund would also sponsor a transnational conference
for theory generation and/or theory testing using Kaduna state as a case
study. He equally said that the findings from the studies would be published
in academic journals of high impact in association with reputable
publishers. The vice-chancellor said that the 2020 grant was open to academic
staff in KASU and scholars that are affiliated to the university to
improve their research productivity. “There is a complex, and knotty connections between COVID-19 and
development, particularly, with respect to the implementation of the
SDGs. “Unfortunately, there is paucity of research on how COVID-19 can
influence the implementation of SDGs vis-a-vis how groups and sub-groups
in Kaduna state are working to adapt to effects of the pandemic. “It is imperative, therefore, to generate knowledge through empirical
analyses to provide answers to some nagging questions about COVID-19
and its impact on the implementation of SDGs in the state. “Given the global impact of the pandemic, there is urgent need to
uncover its effects in relation to development incentives, challenges
and opportunities as it affects groups and subgroups in Kaduna state. “Particularly its impacts on income, food security and livelihood in
the state as well as information and communication programmes to the
residents to enable personal and group decisions. “Evidences generated from the research will provide a better
understanding of the implications of COVID-19 for designing context,
specific rapid response policies and programmes. “It will also build capacity of policy makers, professionals, and
entrepreneurs in Kaduna state to respond swiftly, efficiently, and
effectively to challenges posed by COVID-19,” Tanko said. The vice-chancellor explained that the KASU-VC Mini Research Fund was
an annual research fund established in 2020 to encourage
interdisciplinary, cross disciplinary and multidisciplinary research. He said that the main objective of the fund was to ensure that KASU
create and disseminate knowledge on topical issues by way of developing
fresh theoretical premises and/or confirming or disconfirming extant
theories. “The findings from the research will generate knowledge and fresh
insights and ideas on nagging societal challenges in the Kaduna state
with the aim of promoting well-being and developmental objectives in
accordance with the SDGs,” he added. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA