Abdulwahid Islamic Foundation on  Sunday distributed 400 5kg bags of rice to indigent Muslims in  Agboyi-Ketu and Ikosi Isheri Communities in Lagos. The President of the Foundation, Mr Ishaq Alabi, told newsmen at the
event that the relief packages were to ease the discomfort the COVID-19
pandemic had brought on the poor and the less-privileged, especially
those observing Ramadan fast. Alabi said: “This period is challenging for everyone, most especially the poor and daily wage earners. “The foundation came to the conclusion to support members of Islamic
groups by providing the less privileged among them with food items. “The food distribution to the vulnerable is to complement the effort
of the government in cushioning the effect of the lockdown on the masses
during this Ramadan. “The foundation was able to make provision for over 400 beneficiaries.” The foundation’s president, who commended his members for the
sacrifice, appreciated the Executive Chairman of Agboyi- Ketu LCDA, Mr
Dele Oshinowo and the President, Succour Foundation, Mr Samuel Adebayo
for their donations. Also speaking, Mr Idowu Sharadeen, the Chairman, Board of Trustees of
the foundation noted that group needed to do more, considering the
poverty and hunger in the land. Sharadeen, who was represented by Mr Abdulwaheed Odunuga, the founder
of the Foundation, said: “More grounds need to be covered, we appeal
for more support from corporate organisations and the wealthy
individuals. “There is no better time to show we are concerned and we care for
humanity in this most trying time of a pandemic that has crippled life
and economy.” One of the beneficiaries, Alhaja Roliat Oduyemi, expressed gratitude to the foundation. Oduyemi said that the time was hard for her and her family, describing the gesture as apt and timely succour. “It has not been easy making ends meet these days as foodstuffs are
quite expensive, not to talk of the lockdown that affected us
negatively. “Receiving these foodstuffs from Abdulwahid Islamic Foundation at this trying time is a blessing. “I thank Allah and the foundation and pray for more progress against the pandemic in this fasting month,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the beneficiaries defied the early morning rain to grab the 5kg bags of rice. All beneficiaries were full of appreciation to the foundation. (NAN) 