The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on  Tuesday said the agency would begin to prosecute pirates under the new  Anti-piracy Law. The Director-General of the Agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh, stated this in
Lagos during the official handover of pirates arrested by the Nigerian
Navy for prosecution. Jamoh, who was represented by the agency’s Head of Legal Services, Mr
Victor Egejuru, said that NIMASA was commited to collaborate with
relevant agencies and stakeholders for the security of the country’s
maritime domain. He noted that the 10 pirates had on May 15 attacked and boarded a
Chinese vessel, MV HAILUFANG II, off the coast of Côte d’Ivoire and
directed it towards Nigerian waters. He disclosed that they were arrested by the Nigerian Navy, which dispatched a ship to intercept the vessel following a tip off. “The prosecution of the pirates will be the first trial of bandits
arrested in international waters under the Suppression of Piracy and
Other Maritime Offences (SPOMO) Act signed into law in June last year by
President Muhammadu Buhari. “The law made Nigeria the first in West and Central Africa to have a distinct antipiracy legislation,” he said. Jamoh attributed the successful operation that led to the arrest of  the pirates and rescue of the ship and its crew to collaboration between  NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy. He said that the agency would continue to work with relevant security
agencies in order to achieve its goal of eradicating piracy and all
forms of illegality on the Nigerian waters. “We have just witnessed the handover of pirates. This is as a result
of the robust collaboration between NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy. “There has been a lot of synergy between NIMASA and the Navy with
regard to the Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Offences Act. “I also want to seize the opportunity to thank Mr President for
signing the anti-piracy law, which would facilitate sufficient
prosecution of these pirates,” he said. Jamoh assured that with the anti-piracy law, there was ample legal
framework to prosecute pirates and other perpetrators of maritime
offences in the country to bring the menace to the barest minimum. He said that the current management of NIMASA would focus on three
main areas, namely, maritime security, safety, and shipping development
in pursuit of a robust maritime domain for the country. The Commander of Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Beecroft, Commodore Ibrahim
Shettima, who gave details of the naval operation, said the vessel had
18 crew members including Chinese, Ghanaians, and Ivorians. Shettima said: “On interception of the vessel about 140nm south of
Lagos Fairway Buoy, the pirates refused to comply with the orders of the
Navy ship. “The Nigerian Navy had to conduct an opposed boarding of the vessel.
All ship crew were safely rescued, while the 10 pirates were also
arrested,” he said. He stressed the need for increased regional cooperation and
information sharing, adding that the arrest of the pirates was due to a
tip-off by the Beninoise Navy. Shettima warned criminal elements to stay away from Nigerian waters
and the Gulf of Guinea, saying the Navy had the capability to deal with
such threats.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA