An Islamic scholar, Sheikh Yusha’u Abdullahi, has urged wealthy
Muslims to be more generous by giving alms to the poor, needy and
orphans, especially in the last 10 days of Ramadan. Abdullahi said this in Kaduna on Wednesday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). ” People Living with Disabilities in our societies and many families who
are living from hand to mouth as a result of the economic crunch caused
by the coronavirus also needed help in this critical time,” he said. The cleric reminded Muslim faithful on the need to give out Zakatul Fitr (ordained alms giving at the end of Ramadan). “This is supposed to be given out to the needy in the last three days of
Ramadan or in the early hours of Eid-el-Fitr before the commencement of
the Eid prayer. “We do not know if the Eid prayers would be conducted across states
affected by the coronavirus, be it as it may, people who have the means
must give out Zakatul Fitr. “Muslim faithful should also endeavor to maximally put to use these
last 10 days of Ramadan by reciting more of the glorious Qur’an and
praying harder for a better Nigeria and solutions to end the coronavirus
across nations. “We must use the increased rendition of the Qur’an not only in
understanding it better, but in living in accordance to its tenets and
guidance, for dignity of the individual Muslim and the general,” he
said. Abdullahi added: “Indeed in the Glorious Qur’an lies salvation and
other good virtues needed for the existence of man, therefore, the
spirit of observing daily obligatory prayers, and Qiyamu-Ramadan (night
prayers) should be sustained in these days and beyond. “We should watch out for the Laylatul Qadr (night of power) which
often comes up on one of the five exceptional nights within the last 10
days according to authentic hadith of the Prophet. “We, nonetheless, reiterate our call to Muslim faithful to intensify
prayers for the general public against all manners of misfortunes and
the coronavirus. “They should also pray for relief and succour for the economic challenges bedeviling the nation.” He called on Muslim faithful to seek Allah’s pardon in the sacred
days and to pray fervently for his benevolent acceptance of their
Ramadan fast and also never to return to abominable acts after Ramadan
(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.