Gov. Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe state has inaugurated the distribution of  palliatives to vulnerable persons to cushion the effect of Coronavirus  pandemic in the state. Speaking at the occasion which which took place in Boh community of
Shongom  Local Government Area, Yahaya, represented by his deputy,
Manasseh Jatau the welfare package was aimed at meeting  the needs of
the vulnerable. He said the exercise would take place in the 2,218 polling  units across the 11 Local Government Areas of the state. “Sequel to the suffering created by the COVID-19 pandemic, the
Federal Government, through the North East Development Commission,and
the Gombe State Government brought these items to the people who are
worst hit,” he said. The governor said arrangement had been made for equitable
distribution of the items to reach the most vulnerable persons that were
targeted. He said 30 vulnerable persons, comprising  orphans, widows and the
physically-challenged, among others, had been targeted in each of the
2,218 polling units across the state. He appealed to the beneficiaries to be magnanimous to their
neighbours by cultivating the attitude of sharing with one another, no
matter how small. Yahaya  debunked insinuations that the palliatives were meant for
only members of the ruling party, adding that the use of “polling units”
for distribution of the materials was just for the purpose of
convenience. Earlier, the Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu-Abubakar III,
Chairman of the Gombe State Palliatives and Relief Committee, said the
gesture would cushion the impact of the pandemic. Shehu-Abubakar said the items would be given to the targeted people
to ensure that the aim of the gesture by the government was achieved. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the items distributed
include rice, millet, spaghetti, macaroni, sugar and cooking oil.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA