Mgbuoshimi Community in Rumueme Kingdom of Obio/Akpor Local  Government Area, Rivers, on Friday sensitised residents to obey the  Rivers Government’s lockdown order, meant to curb the spread of   Coronavirus (COVID-19). An opinion leader in the community, Chief Lucky Okochi told the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN), in Mgbuoshimini community, that the
sensitisation was to explain the importance of the lockdown order. Okochi disclosed that the community had set-up a COVID-19
sensitisation committee to domesticate the message of the ravaging
pandemic. He said that the initiative to enlighten the people was the
community’s contribution to the Rivers government’s efforts at
curtailing the virus that was spreading like wild fire. “We have formed COVID-19 Taskforce in the community, and we are
currently carrying out sensitisation on the COVID-19 lockdown order by
the Rivers Government. “We are going round the two villages of Oroakwo and Oroazi, which
make up Mgbuoshini community, to Federal Housing area and its suburbs to
sensitise the people on the need to stay at home. “The need to maintain physical distance even when they are in their
various premises in order to curb the spread of Coronavirus,” he said. Okochi urged the residents to limit their movement within their
premises to avoid being arrested by the police and taken to the state’s
isolation centre for court trial. “Most of the compounds in the estate and community are large enough
for residents to exercise if they so wish to do, so residents should
stay within their compounds and also observe social distance. “But coming out to the streets will encourage many people to be on
the streets and the essence of the lockdown will be defeated.’’ The community opinion leader pleaded that the lockdown would not last forever and it was for the benefit of all. He commended Gov. Wike and the Rivers Taskforce on COVID-19, for doing well and pledged the community’s support. Chief Ndidi Livingstone, Leader of Mgbuoshimini Community Taskforce
on COVID-19, said that the community was embarking on the sensitisation
to avoid attracting the wrath of the state government, on violating the
lockdown order. Livingstone said that the police would arrest anyone found violating the order after the sensitisation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that officers of the
Divisional Police Station in the area accompanied the community leaders
and youths during the sensitisation. The Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike had announced an
indefinite lockdown of Port Harcourt City and Obio/Akpor LGAs to curb
the spread of COVID-19.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA