Ifedapo Community Development Association (CDA), Surulere, Lagos,
will begin fumigation of the area on Sunday, May 10, starting from
Tejuosho market and parts of Ojuelegba to prevent the spread of
COVID-19. The Chairman of the association, Mr Babatunde Sodipe, made this known  on Saturday during a media briefing to thank stakeholders for COVID-19  palliatives received in the area. He explained that the community which comprised residential areas and
markets, needed to be fumigated, sustained and staggered through
various market-approved days. “We will begin fumigation of the streets under this CDA tomorrow
Sunday and we will continue this initiative because COVID-19 is a deadly
virus,” he said. Sodipe said that a special COVID-19 task force set up by the CDA was
carrying out house-to-house sensitisation to let the residents know that
the virus was real and deadly. He added that market sensitisation as well as enforcement of
provision of hand washing devices were made available in shops in the
various plazas and shops in the market. He said that the CDA would begin immediate evacuation of drainage
channels to avert flooding ahead of the rainy season and solicited
youth’s empowerment in the community. He pledged the resolve of the new leadership to ensure security and
development while calling for more government support in the area. “We will put in our best to ensure we make you proud. You have chosen
us as your representatives and we pledge to do our best in
accomplishing the tasks ahead of us. “We use this medium to humbly call on the government and all involved
in community existence to please do the best they can to ensure that
our local communities thrive. “There are several areas within our communities that need urgent
government and private sector intervention and the area of youth
development and rural infrastructure cannot be left out. “More can still be done to alleviate the troubles of the masses at
the grassroots and we look up to you all for equitable, fair and
accountable leadership strides. “We believe in the government of the day and trust in their
leadership capacities to move us all in the right direction as we
progress,” Sodipe said. He pledged the commitment of his team to the State, Local and Federal Governments as well as other community stakeholders. He thanked all tiers of government, House of Representatives Speaker,
Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, elders of the community, past and current
councillors for their contributions toward giving palliatives to
community. “We do not want the gestures to go unappreciated,” Sodipe said. Mr Patrick Apan an Ex-officio of the CDA, also appealed for more
emphasis on youths’ empowerment to tackle problem of non-development in
the area. Mr Adedamola Osho an elderly citizen in the area commended the new
leadership for their efforts and appealed that the palliatives meant for
the area should be increased because of its huge population. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA